I would like to extend my warmest welcome to you on behalf of the Hong Kong Applied Science and Technology Research Institute (ASTRI).
We have never stopped innovating as people since we first made fire hundreds of thousands of years ago. Today, our society owes much of its progress to innovation, whether it is in the form of a 5G smart phone, a banking transaction secured by the blockchain, a timely diagnosis with medical image analytics, a manufacturing robot equipped with computer vision, or a traffic grid that thinks on its own through inter-vehicular communication. Innovation delivers convenience, affords us peace of mind, improves our quality of life, drives productivity and brings all of us closer together.
At ASTRI, we leverage the power of innovation to help our partners drive commercialisation success and to enhance Hong Kong’s competitiveness in the Greater Bay Area, in Asia and globally. Our goal is to meet the needs of organisations and businesses with innovative ideas and solutions through empirical and exploratory applied research. We bridge the two ends of the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) ecosystem, between academia and the industry, by linking the fruits of science and technology research with the domain of practical applications for our collective commercial successes and economic benefits.
An important key to sustaining and strengthening the growth and prosperity of Hong Kong lies in the way we embrace innovation. The Government has been taking decisive and comprehensive steps to strengthen the city’s innovation and technology landscape. As Hong Kong’s largest Government-funded technology research institution, ASTRI pursues innovation that enhances the competitiveness of Hong Kong’s technology-based industries and improves the lives of its residents. Our innovative R&D endeavours venture into five key areas of application: Smart City, Intelligent Manufacturing, Financial Technologies, Next Generation Network and Health Technologies.
With over 500 highly competent R&D professionals and experts coming from various fields and backgrounds, ASTRI plays a key role in augmenting and supporting the Government’s innovation and technology strategy. Over the last decade, ASTRI has fostered deep relationships with countless public service agencies, industry regulators, and organisations, as well as some of the most successful commercial enterprises in the private sector. That number continues to grow. As we undertake ever more innovative R&D projects that align with Hong Kong’s strategic priorities like re-industrialisation, smart city development, and building a global FinTech hub, we also stay abreast of national and international programmes like the ‘Greater Bay Area Development’ and the ‘Belt and Road’ initiative. By harnessing the power of technology and making the most of these once-in-lifetime opportunities, we seek to secure a stronger, more prosperous future for Hong Kong. Our success hinges both on your success and on the close collaborations we forge with partners and stakeholders locally, regionally and internationally.
On our website, you will find stories, insights and project information regarding our past R&D undertakings and various engagements, as well as our future plans. Please do not hesitate to reach out to me personally or to our many highly qualified professionals should you have any additional question or require any information.
We are here to innovate, to serve you and to serve Hong Kong.
ASTRI’s seeks to guide and facilitate the growth of Hong Kong’s healthcare industry and its ecosystems through development and deployment of a state-of-the-art Health Technology platform. Utilising this platform to drive sustained and disruptive technological R&D, new applications are being developed especially in the areas of preventive health monitoring and medical diagnosis, medical computing and data analytics. Our Health Technologies strategy is fully aligned with the community’s expectations for (i) lower healthcare cost, (ii) personalised healthcare services, and (iii) improved quality of life.
Research Areas & Focus
Miniaturised Diagnostic Devices
Low cost, remotely navigated capsule video endoscope
Video laryngoscope with streaming functionality
Disposable high definition flexible endoscope
Medical Image Analytics
Digital pathology whole slide imaging analysis
Capsule endoscopy video analysis
Real-time endoscopy video processing
Bioinformatics Computing
Next generation sequencing data analytics
Phenotype and genotype association
Medical big data analytics
