VIDAMINT
Aligning Stakeholders in a
NEW
HEALTHCARE
ECOSYSTEM
  Version 2.0, 3/28/18. Subject to Change.
Samir Damani MD, PharmD, FACC, Vishal Verma, MD Jean Balgrosky, PhD, Raleigh Harbour, MBA, Jeremy Gross, Tanuj Nigam, Umesh Lalwani, Eric Daniels, MD

LEGAL NOTICES
You should carefully read and fully understand this whitepaper and any updates, including the disclaimer and healthcare, legal, and regulatory considerations provided at the end. Additional risks are described in other documentation provided by MintHealth, Inc., which all potential purchasers should carefully read and fully understand prior to purchasing Tokens because they will be legally bound.
This whitepaper describes our current vision for the MintHealth Platform. While we intend to attempt to realize this vision, please recognize that it is dependent on quite a number of factors and subject to quite a number of risks. It is entirely possible that the MintHealth Platform will never be implemented or adopted, or that only a portion of our vision will be realized. We do not guarantee, represent or warrant any of the statements in this whitepaper, because they are based on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions, about which there can be no assurance due to various anticipated and unanticipated events that may occur.

 ABSTRACT
Preventable chronic diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancers are responsible for over 40 of the 56 million annual deaths worldwide (7 out of every 10 deaths). Our medical communities spend vast resources battling complications of these behavior-related conditions, despite the availability of technologies and processes to better engage patients when disease burden is low and the ability to prevent disease is high. Most importantly, clinical and behavioral information is locked within data silos inside healthcare organizations, unavailable to patients, clinicians, and researchers in ways that can leverage machine learning to personalize care and illuminate the drivers of disease and health. Because of these and other factors, patients are relegated to passive, rather than proactive positions, in their own health care.
The result has been an unsustainable rise in global healthcare costs and poor clinical outcomes, which are major contributors to poverty and economic stagnation in the developed and developing world. Developed nations now also face imminent threats to financial solvency. In the U.S. alone, healthcare costs will rise to over $5 trillion (over 20% of GDP) by 2022, with over 90% of these costs related to chronic conditions as mentioned above.
Blockchain technology helps solve existing healthcare challenges by enabling a self-sovereign, secure, and freely-flowing health record. MintHealth is a decentralized health platform-as-a-service (PaaS) that aligns health plans, provider groups, and wellness brands around patient engagement, improved clinical outcomes, and lower healthcare costs. The company will combine the self-sovereign record with a proven patient engagement platform, and a Vidamint Token that incentivizes healthy behaviors. This approach to data liquidity and patient empowerment will move us into an era where clinical experience, patient data, and machine learning are leveraged synergistically to create novel insights, therapies, and services for engaging patients, improving their clinical outcomes, and controlling the relentless rise of chronic disease-related healthcare costs.
“He who has health, has hope;
and he who has hope, has everything.”
– Thomas Carlyle


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Data silos preclude the delivery of personalized care and force patients, especially those suffering costly chronic conditions, into a suboptimal, passive state. Further, disengaged centralized data excerabates misalignment between stakeholders throughout the entire healthcare ecosystem. MintHealth is a decentralized health platform- as-a-service (PaaS) that aligns health plans, provider groups, and wellness brands around patient engagement, improved clinical outcomes, and lower healthcare costs.
The key features of MinthHealth’s PaaS model are:
• Blockchain-enabling existing apps allow healthcare businesses to create a portable/secure, and patient
controlled repository of clinical and behavioral data. This supports the evolution from a niche
product/service offering to a value-based care organization.
• Digital incentives – Vidamints, reward salutary patient behaviors to increase return-on-investment (ROI)
for at-risk entities, as well as increase customer loyalty through a growing token redemption marketplace (e.g. Amazon, Uber, CVS, Kaiser, etc.).
The company’s dual token structure (both security and utility) leverages the best of blockchain capabilities. Vidamints, the incentive/utility tokens carry a fixed price administered through the blockchain, providing the price stability required by enterprise customers. The security token utilizes blockchain to leverage market movements as a vehicle for fundraising and to automate governance.
Through the organizations’s proven, scalable chronic care management technology and seasoned executive team, a rapidly growing sales and investor pipeline is in place with groups including Microsoft, Higi, incentaHEALTH, and New Ocean Health Solutions. MintHealth is raising $USD up to 25M via a Reg D private placement, $USD up to 1.07M via a Reg Crowd Funding, and currently exploring other regulated sales via JOBS act exemptions.
1.1 Bringing Together IP, Experience, & Blockchain
As illustrated in Figure 1, MintHealth’s PaaS stems from the powerful combination of blockchain with the intellectual property and executive expertise of MD Revolution and NucelusHealth, two leading organizations in technology enabled chronic care management and medical imaging/data transfer, respectively.
Figure 1: IP + Experience + Blockchain
   6

This deep domain expertise, along with established distribution channels, and a protected intellectual property position has facilitated collaboration with a number of visionary partners (Figure 2).
Figure 2: Visionary Collaborators
1.2 Go-To-Market Strategy
Blockchain enables patients to proactively manage their health. In this whitepaper, we describe how a self- sovereign health record and global unique identifier, secured by blockchain allows patient data – clinical and behavioral – to move seamlessly between patient authorized stakeholders (learn how blockchain enables data liquidity with a permissions framework in this video linked here). We also outline how our patient engagement technology and Vidamints provide powerful incentives for proactive and preventive patient behaviors.
The organization’s market entry will leverage strong market tailwinds by healthcare businesses looking to create novel, “sticky” solutions for patients with chronic conditions. Figure 3 highlights the organization’s top-line strategy to target, deploy, and grow.
          7

Figure 3: MintHealth’s Go-To-Market Strategy
 To increase stakeholder traction along patient enagement and consumer loyalty while lowering healthcare costs, the company’s Vidamint campaigns aim squarely to define patient consumers, develop application program interfaces, and ultimately deploy solutions. Figure 4 outlines the tenets of a Vidamint campaign.
Figure 4: Vidamint Campaign Process
 As the reader can appreciate from Figure 4, a cornerstone of successful patient engagement and patient loyalty is incentive and reward. MinthHealth deploys token incentives to drive patient enagement and consumer loyalty for existing enterprise applications. As Figure 5 denotes, tokenizing health care is applicable for both patient care and consumer stakeholders.
 8

Figure 5: Tokenizing Health Care
 In addition to Vidamint campaigns, the organization’s 18-month operational milestones include PaaS pilots to key collaborators, expanding established distribution channels, and continued Vidamint market expansion. Figure 6 outlines the 2018-2019 roadmap.
Figure 6: 2018-2019 Roadmap
 1.3 Competitive Landscape
A critical evaluation of healthcare companies generally applying “blockchain” reveals an increasingly concentrated space. How does one frame this environment and separate opportunity from noise? The aspiration of organizations operating in this space is to leverage blockchain and token incentives to fill an unmet need in the healthcare marketplace around value based care (better clinical outcomes per dollar spent). Figure 7 illustrates how organizations are positioned according to this framework.
 9

Figure 7: Competitive Landscape
Alternatively, it is insightful to comapre offerings between the following three categories: patient data, PaaS, and token model. In this matrix (Figure 8), one clearly sees a heavy bias toward patient data while underserving the needs of PaaS and an incentivizing token. In short, MintHealth is uniquely positioned to deliver to on the goal of valued based care models.
Figure 8: Competitive Matrix
   10

1.4 Financial Forecast & MintHealth Security Token (MHST) Offering
The MintHealth security token (MHST), as defined by SEC regulations, entitles token holders to equity ownership in MintHealth and the right to receive 10% of the revenue generated by the future sale of Vidamints (VIDA) utility tokens. Figure 9 highlights token allocation and use of proceeds.
Figure 9: MintHealth Security Token Allocation and Use of Proceeds
A highlight of MintHealth’s financial forecast is also noted below ($USD in thousands).
Blockchain technology helps solve existing healthcare challenges by enabling a self-sovereign, secure, and freely-flowing health record. MintHealth is a decentralized health platform-as-a-service (PaaS) that aligns health plans, provider groups, and wellness brands around patient engagement, improved clinical outcomes, and lower healthcare costs. The company will combine the self-sovereign record with a proven patient engagement platform, and a Vidamint Token that incentivizes healthy behaviors.
   11

21ST CENTURY HEALTH – A WORLDWIDE CRISIS WITH A BLOCKCHAIN- ENABLED SOLUTION
Chronic medical conditions represent the global public health challenge of the 21st century. Heart disease, diabetes, stroke, cancer, and chronic respiratory conditions represent 70% of deaths, with over half occurring in women and those under the age of 70.1,2 This preventable epidemic has been underappreciated as a cause of poverty and economic stagnation in developing nations. Today, 4 of 5 chronic disease deaths occur in low and middle-income countries, and in densely populated areas.3 Those of modest socioeconomic means and poor education have been hit the hardest. Nearly $800 billion of economic output has been foregone in India and China due to premature deaths from heart disease, stroke, and diabetes over the last decade.3 This figure would increase to well over $1 trillion with the addition of preventable cancer deaths. The emotional and mental toll of this disease burden also cannot be ignored.
The World Health Organization (WHO) recently gave an example of Roberto Severino Campos, a 52 year-old living in a shanty town in Sao Paulo, Brazil.3 He ignored his high blood pressure, smoked, and drank excessively. Roberto had his first stroke at the age of 46 and is now completely dependent on his wife and family for activities of daily living. While his medication checks are free of charge, the family doesn’t have the money to take the bus to get to the local medical facility. He has since had several additional strokes. Sadly, case studies like this are rampant in urban settings in both developed and developing nations across the globe.
Solutions now exist for Roberto and others like him. Statistics show that 40% of all cancers and 80% of heart disease, diabetes, and stroke are preventable.1,4 Common risk factors that can be readily modified including poor diet, low physical activity, sedentary behaviors, tobacco, and alcohol use represent the lion’s share of risk for developing and dying from chronic conditions.3-6 Most importantly, hundreds of studies have shown that digital interventions to reduce risky behaviors, including education, self-monitoring of behaviors, and social support can be highly effective at preventing the development of chronic conditions.5-8 Simple text messaging and health coaching via digital modalities have had significant impacts on improving medication adherence and overall health outcomes in patients like Mr. Campos.5,6,9
Herein, we describe how a self-sovereign health record secured by blockchain allows patient data – clinical and behavioral – to move seamlessly between patients, Providers, and health systems in real-time. We also outline how our patient engagement technology and Vidamints provide powerful incentives for proactive and preventive patient behaviors, thereby precluding patient passivity that feeds the root cause of the global epidemic of chronic diseases that we face today.
2.1 Healthcare Data – The Link to Risk & Opportunity
Patient medical records are frequently captive to a single Provider organization or health system, with cumbersome access protocols making it difficult for patients and families to obtain and transfer records across multiple Providers. Furthermore, each electronic health record (EHR) system stores data differently, so it is not obvious who recorded what, where, and when. This results in EHR data that is essentially walled off from participants in the continuum of care including not only patients whose data it is, but caregivers, pharmacists, nurses, nursing homes, rehab facilities, and social networks devoted to their care. Because of this, lab, medication, and other data frequently need to be individually faxed and medical images “burned” onto antiquated CDs and DVDs, then hand-delivered piecemeal to Providers that practice outside of the “designated” health system. Legacy software systems with limited interoperability house siloed data scattered across disparate clinical, research, administrative, and financial systems. Clinical and behavioral data generated from the home and work are absent, and important health trends rarely addressed with the patient. The result is a vicious cycle of a frustrated, uninformed patient who waits until illness is upon him or her before taking action, if given permission to do so by the “system”.
  12

We see blockchain as the solution for moving patients towards a more informed, proactive approach to their health. Blockchains (Figure 10) can underpin the secure housing and immediate transfer of data to ecosystem participants without the need for intermediaries or clearinghouses to adjudicate permissions. Smart blockchain contracts would allow for immediate data transfer to pre-determined entities, or in emergency situations, a durable power of attorney could add permissions to a smart contract.
Figure 10: Decentralized and open sourced processing enables data liquidity
Conventional approach data transfer requires Blockchain eliminates middlemen and allows for third-party intermediaries, causing delays, higher seamless and secure transfer of data/information. costs, and potential for fraud and abuse.
Medical imaging, medications, nutritional intake, diagnoses, andother clinical and behavioral data will be integrated from various sources including EHR systems, wireless devices, smartphones, commonly used mobile applications, and legacy software, administrative, and clinical systems. This will be done on an open- sourced distributed ledger, so that additions and subtractions to the health record were understood and auditable. The result will be a self-sovereign personal record tied to a unique global identifier that would travel with patients beyond state and national boundaries. Figures 11 & 12 illustrate the healthcare system before and after a MintHealth enabled solution.
To be clear, blockchain is not meant to eliminate legacy systems, but rather harvest them in a way that produces greater efficiency, at lower cost, and improved clinical outcomes. The intelligent control of records access noted here, enabled by the MintHealth Platform, would obviate the need for custom access to each EHR and siloed system, catalyzing our movement to liquid data that can be seamlessly and securely transported from one stakeholder to the next.
   13

Figure 11: Data silos preclude the delivery of personalized care and force patients into a passive state
 Figure 12: Data liquidity from all medical record sources breaks down silos to empower patients
  14

2.2 U.S. Health Care – The Perfect Storm
The U.S. spends over $3.2 trillion on health care annually, with 90% spent on preventable chronic conditions such as diabetes, obesity, heart disease, and cancer.4 Despite this astronomical economic outlay, the U.S. remains near bottom in cost and quality outcomes compared to other OECD countries.10 Factor in the 3.5 million people turning age 65 annually in the U.S. who have at least one chronic condition, and one sees an unsustainable economic model.10
Currently, U.S. healthcare costs outpace GDP growth by over 2%, placing costs over $5 trillion and 20% of GDP by 2022.11 At this rate, U.S. healthcare costs will soon be greater than the GDP of 99% of countries worldwide. If something drastic is not done to halt the inexorable rise in healthcare costs seen today, future generations of U.S. citizens will spend $1 of every $2 earned on health care simply sustaining a broken system.
Today, 70% of adults in the U.S. aged 18-64 have private insurance paying for their healthcare costs.12 These insurance payers are positioned to rapidly adopt more effective and innovative solutions. Given the dire economic situation and the large mix of not-for-profit, government, and private insurers, we believe the U.S. is the ideal laboratory to implement a token-based solution that can be adopted by government and private Payers worldwide.
2.2.1 Aligning Healthcare Stakeholders
The U.S. healthcare market serves as an ideal microcosm of global dysfunction, as substantial evidence leaves no doubt that those paying for, delivering, and receiving health care operate in a system of misaligned incentives.13,14 Key stakeholders include the following:
• Patients receive health care delivered by Providers. They pay for insurance premiums, co-payments, and deductibles, as well as direct out-of-pocket expenses for healthcare services. Along with Providers, patients contribute data for electronic health records, although patient-generated data and behavioral information on vital signs, diet, physical activity, real- time alcohol and tobacco use, and more has been largely omitted from EHR platforms.
• Providers (doctors, nurses, and other clinical staff and health institutions such as hospitals, clinics, and health systems) deliver care to patients. They submit financial claims to Payers, receiving fees reimbursed for billable services performed. This is known as a fee-for-service model. Providers are the main clinical contributors to and users of electronic health records. Private practitioners work for themselves or as part of a group of Providers. These Provider groups frequently contract with hospitals, health systems, and vendors to provide specific services (e.g., medical imaging, surgery centers, specialty care). Kaiser Permanente, Sharp HealthCare, Scripps Health, and Ascension Health (among thousands of others), are examples of health systems that include a diverse group of Providers offering a complete spectrum of care.
• Payers are insurance entities that reimburse Providers for covered healthcare services. In the U.S., approximately 67% of Payers are private companies, including commercial insurance companies and self-insured corporations, while approximately 37% are government agencies and programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid/MediCal.12 About 33% of healthcare insurance dollars flow from private companies, and 67% from governmental programs.1
 15

• Private Insurers strive to keep medical loss ratios (percentage of premium dollars paid by patients that the Payer in turn spends on health care – the definition itself tells you something about Payer attitudes towards parting with those premium dollars towards care for patients.) low in order to increase profitability, reduce premiums, and increase market competitiveness. Government’s primary goal is to provide access to needed care to citizens who may be disadvantaged from income, age, or disability standpoints, while controlling costs. Low medical loss ratios predominately result from a healthier patient population and adequate access to preventive care.
• Electronic Health Record (EHR) Systems are secure clinical data repository and line management/clinical workflow systems that combine healthcare data from support systems such as laboratory, radiology, medical imaging, and pharmacy, and enable electronic access and communication among Providers for facilitating care delivery. EHR systems also support the collection of data for uses other than direct clinical care, such as billing, quality management, outcomes reporting, resource planning, and public health disease surveillance and reporting.15
• Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology Companies develop drugs, products and services used in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, and prevention of disease.
• Medical Device Companies develop instruments, machines, implants, in vitro reagents, and other products and services used in the diagnosis, mitigation, and treatment of disease.
• Pharmacies are responsible for management of medication inventories, and compliant fulfillment of medications and remedies prescribed by Providers. These entities now also serve as satellite medical clinics for acute care needs.
• Research & Academic Institutions exist for the advancement of knowledge in science and medicine through discovery, experimentation, research and teaching.
2.2.2 Growing Focus on Value-Based Care
Under the current fee-for-service reimbursement framework, increased disease prevalence equals greater numbers of office visits and procedures, and increased revenues for Providers. Coupled with low or no reimbursement for preventive services, chronic illness at epidemic proportions occurring in a fee-for-service construct has led to an “epistrophic” care model that focuses on delivering episodic, catastrophic care at volume, and without regard to cost-effectiveness, quality, or outcomes (value).14 Unfortunately, the vast majority of Americans are left to navigate the complex seas of disease prevention on their own. The results have been poor, with U.S. outcomes ranked last among OECD nations, while healthcare expenditures per capita rank highest.10
The good news is that the shift to value (ratio of quality to cost) and away from volume-based, fee-for-service driven care is underway. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) – the largest Payer in the nation – recently established several reimbursement mechanisms for chronic care management (CCM) and behavioral health (BH) services where patients above age 65 with chronic conditions receive support for medication compliance, transportation, preventive screening, education, and counseling between office visits. Early data shows promising success with these programs driving significant return on investment (ROI) and positive health outcomes. In a recent case study, MD Revolution, a proven platform for chronic care management, demonstrated a $3.5M reduction in hospitalization claims (5x ROI) and reduced 30-day readmissions by 50% in over 3,500 CCM patients over an 8-month time span.16
 16

As described further in later sections of this whitepaper, the MintHealth solution leverages existing intellectual property (IP) from technology platforms including MD Revolution.
In addition to value-based programs like CCM and BH services, the U.S. Congress established the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA) in 2015, aimed at aligning Provider payments with value. Starting in 2017, all U.S. Providers of health care must report to CMS on chronic disease management performance from 3 categories: quality, practice improvement, and advancing care information.17 These reports are used to reward or penalize Providers through increased or decreased reimbursement rates based on their scores for these measures.
Providers may qualify for financial incentives, or more importantly, avoid penalties based on their activity in 6 or more quality metrics (out of 271), 4 or more practice improvement initiatives (out of 92), and 9 out of 15 measures for advancing care information.17 Starting in 2019, Providers will face incentives or penalties from 4% - 9% of all Medicare payments, which will place millions in revenue at risk for Providers with suboptimal metrics in the categories noted above.
While we applaud this recent reimbursement move toward value-based care, U.S. stakeholder alignment is far from complete (remember the three primary stakeholders at the outset of this whitepaper: Patients, Providers, and Payers). The government programs touch on an important and expanding U.S. demographic – those greater than age 65. However, these programs fail to address most of the working population in the U.S. who receive healthcare insurance from their employer or privately. Most importantly, these government programs fail to directly incent the most important participant in the healthcare ecosystem – the patient. Regardless of the regulatory programs designed to encourage proactive management of chronic illness, the U.S. and countries world-wide must begin the manage health in ways that directly involve the patient and link them to their health data and their providers.
For health systems to achieve substantial and sustainable cost reductions, patients must be rewarded for engaging in health-promoting activities and positive behavior change. Data repeatedly demonstrates that incentives coupled with social support, education, and gamification reduce disease burden and costs related to managing chronic conditions.7,18-20
THE VIDAMINT SOLUTION
MintHealth is a blockchain-enabled health data platform that aligns key stakeholders around empowered patients and improved population health. Through enhanced data liquidity and a self-sovereign health record combined with a unique token incentive called Vidamints.
The unifying thread to changing patient behaviors is engagement via: i) education, ii) self-tracking of health metrics to improve awareness, iii) social support, and iv) financial incentives. Fortunately, the rapid rise of mobile infrastructure and smartphones has made patient engagement scalable and cost-effective. The total number of mobile phones in use is nearly 5 billion and rising, with over half being smartphones.21,22 Accordingly, the necessary infrastructure for connecting patients with their health data is in place and growing. MD Revolution will provide an exclusive license (among token incentive companies) for MintHealth to leverage its patented and leading patient engagement technology Platform.
  “Technology in the 21st century will be for chronic diseases, what vaccines and antibiotics were for infectious diseases in the 20th century.”
– Samir Damani MD, PharmD, FACC
 17

Now imagine MintHealth, a smartphone app (Figures 13-16 below) that engages patients with daily messages reminding them to track metrics including blood pressure, glucose, pain, stress, sleep, and weight, among other clinical and behavioral metrics. This messaging in the app will be tailored to personality types and key principles of behavior modification like “readiness for change” and “self-efficacy”. It serves to increase patient awareness around key health trends – both good and bad. Data transfers, managed by smart contracts and the patient’s self-sovereign health record, allow physicians, clinical staff, family, friends, and caregivers to access patient information on a secure, controlled, and auditable basis, thereby informing overall patient health and building a patient-centered community for ongoing support.
Upon completion of salutary behaviors, patients will also receive incentives for behavior change in the form of Vidamint Tokens. Vidamint Tokens will be managed and adjudicated through the blockchain and stored in a digital wallet. Vidamint Tokens will be redeemable for certain benefits such as lower insurance premiums, discounts on prescriptions, health, and wellness brands, and preventive services. MintHealth will receive a transaction fee in the form of VIDA Tokens each time a user (e.g. Payer or Provider) creates and assigns a health behavior to a patient.
The goal of the MintHealth model, is for data to be universally accessible to the patient (not restricted in scope by institution), free-flowing (liquid), and secure, moving between patients, Providers, and electronic health records. Under the model, smart contracts will secure this data in the cloud and allow immediate encrypted, patient-permissioned access on the patient’s behalf to anyone, anytime, anywhere – whether in acute care settings such as the emergency room, or at home. A unique global identifier will be permanently linked to the patient’s self-sovereign health record that contains diagnosis, medications, laboratory data, as well as key patient-generated data on nutrition, exercise, vital signs, and demographic information that would be continuously updated.
The self-sovereign health record will create a holistic view into the patient’s overall health. When combined with the incentive of a Vidamint Token, this holistic view will be critical for informing the assignment of behaviors that drive highly targeted health outcomes. The result will be an engaged patient who is incentivized, informed, supported, and empowered with the tools needed to take a proactive approach to their own health.
Figure 13: A token-based ecosystem aligns key stakeholders around the proactive patient and Provider
  18

THE VIDAMINT ECOSYSTEM
4.1 Vidamint Model, Ecosystem Adoption & Partnership Integration
The overarching mission of MintHealth is to leverage blockchain technology for deploying a self-sovereign health record and to establish Vidamints as the gold standard incentive model for aligning healthcare stakeholders around patient empowerment and improved clinical outcomes at lower cost.
Pilot programs with established partner organizations (see Section 4.8 below) will drive initial adoption of Vidamints. By leveraging existing patient engagement platforms provided by MD Revolution, Inc., the MintHealth Platform will drive down healthcare costs of managing patients with or at risk for complications from chronic conditions (hospitalizations, emergency room visits, etc.). This would reduce the quantity and dollar amount of patient insurance reimbursement claims, ultimately reducing costs for Payers. Thus, these Payers would have significant incentives to invest in an ecosystem such as MintHealth and purchase the Vidamint Token. Notably, the MD Revolution CCM platform has already demonstrated its capability to reduce healthcare costs for Payers in a chronic disease population as noted in Figure 14 and Section 2.2.2 above.
Figure 14: Patient Provider-Vidamint incentives will result in improved population health and lower costs
  The cost savings realized for Payers that leverage the Vidamint model will in turn drive further adoption of Vidamints by additional commercial and government healthcare programs globally. The company is aware of the challenges concurrent with adoption of new technologies by Patients and Providers. The U.S. healthcare sector alone is a $3.2 trillion per year industry, with a unique set of participants ranging from individual patients and small family practices to large not-for-profit organizations, health plans, hospital systems, and insurance companies. The industry is complex and historically slow-moving. Accordingly, MintHealth has established an ecosystem development team to drive rapid adoption of the MintHealth Platform and Vidamint Token. This team is expected to:
 19

• Leverage foundational ecosystem partnerships (see Section 4.8 below) to drive the development and rapid distribution of the Vidamint Token.
• Establish and/or utilize relationships of established partner companies including but not limited to MD Revolution, NucleusHealth, Microsoft, Greenway, and Reachify Inc. to expand the depth and breadth of the MintHealth Platform and ecosystem.
• Identify, prioritize, and originate relationships with additional leading healthcare companies, ranging from self-insured corporations, Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs), large hospital systems, and insurance companies to targeted specialty health practices.
• Establish relationships with leading industry associations, non-profit organizations, and patient advocacy groups – critical stakeholders in the healthcare sector.
• Build a network of partners, providing a robust set of attractive options for the holder of Vidamint to redeem the Token for health-related goods and services within the MintHealth ecosystem (see Sections 4.3 & 6 below).
• Design and implement targeted programs with all of the partners above to encourage purchase, adoption and usage of the Vidamint Token across the ecosystem.
4.2 Delivering Incentives for Healthy Behaviors
The application of gamification and financial incentives in healthy behavior modification are core to the MintHealth ecosystem. The core function of the VIDA Token is to reward consumers/patients for engaging in healthy behaviors that are assigned to them through the MintHealth mobile app as well as other apps that are Vidamint- enabled. Behaviors are assigned to the patient in two ways:
• Automatically, based on individualized patient data available to the MintHealth Platform.
• By a Provider or the patient’s network (family member or friend), who will have the ability to select
and assign specific behaviors to the patient, based on their knowledge of the patient.
Patients/Consumers will receive VIDA Tokens from one or more of the following five originators:
• Payers will provide VIDA Tokens to patients for completing assigned behaviors. Payers will select from a list of potential behaviors and corresponding difficulty level and reward quantity based on guidelines established by the system and MintHealth Trust. These behaviors are expected to be assigned and available to the patient programmatically via the MintHealth app based on the patient’s health profile. Each time a patient completes an assigned behavior, a corresponding amount of VIDA Tokens will be transferred from the Payer’s wallet to the patient’s wallet via a vault smart contract. For all healthy behaviors that are created and funded by the Payer, the successful completion of such healthy behavior can be tracked and managed either automatically (e.g. through the patient’s biometric data or blood panel results) or judged by the Provider. In both instances, the Provider will play the role of qualified, independent administrator.
• Providers may also provide VIDA Tokens to patients for completing assigned behaviors. As in the case of Payers, Providers will select from a list of behaviors and corresponding reward quantity, based on their expertise and guidelines established by the MintHealth Trust. Providers
 20

will “self-fund” these rewards, which should reduce or eliminate incentive to collude with patients or otherwise engage in fraudulent behavior. As reimbursement and the U.S. healthcare system evolves to the value-based model, MintHealth will provide additional reward and incentive for Providers achieving better health outcomes in partnership with their patients as measured according to the MIPS program of MACRA.
• Patient’s network (e.g. family members or friends), on the MintHealth Platform will be able to select from a list of healthy behaviors and corresponding reward quantity, based on the guidelines established by the MintHealth Trust and transfer VIDA Tokens to each other for successful completion. This “peer-to-peer” functionality will empower the social component of the MintHealth ecosystem. As in the case of Provider transfers, the requirement for the patient’s network to self-fund transfers should reduce or eliminate incentive to collude or commit fraud. To drive adoption of patient-to-patient transfers, MintHealth will provide the reward creator with a set of healthy behavior suggestions to get them started.
• Consumer 3rd party app companies (e.g. Fitbit, Diet Management, General Wellness, etc.) can provide VIDA to tokenize consumer behaviors of their respective user communities in order to:
o Strengthen loyalty and retention of 3rd party developer end-user communities;
o Provide app end-user access to a rich and diverse redemption marketplace of healthful
products and services;
o Provideaself-sovereignhealthrecordandhistory;
o Facilitateaccesstoend-userpopulationbehaviorandoutcomesanalytics.
• The MintHealth Platform will have a dynamic set of “pre-loaded” healthy behaviors available for an originator to select from based on guidelines established by the MintHealth Trust and evidence-based science. This will seed initial ecosystem adoption and engagement. In addition, originators can also create their own target healthy behaviors, assign a corresponding difficulty level and VIDA Token reward, and submit them to the MintHealth Trust for review and approval. This process allows for crowdsourcing healthy behaviors from the ecosystem, while ensuring the behaviors align with positive health outcomes. Once approved, a submitted behavior will be available to the originator and included in the list of potential behaviors for all ecosystem participants.
o Underthisconstruct,thetotalnumberofVIDATokensthatapatientreceivesisthesumofall the behavior incentives in which the patient is successful in changing their behavior.
o For facilitating the patient behavioral reward system and cover any applicable transaction costs, MintHealth will charge a transaction fee for creating incentive programs. If the program is cancelled, any unutilized VIDA Tokens in the vault smart contract will be refunded to the originator who funded the behavior.
4.3 Powering Ecosystem Redemption
To drive and incentivize patient adoption of health behaviors, the VIDA Token must have inherent value and benefits within the MintHealth ecosystem. A patient/Provider/or consumer who receives VIDA Token can unlock its value in two ways:
• Token Redemption – MintHealth is establishing partnerships with healthcare Providers, Payers, and other healthcare companies to participate in the MintHealth ecosystem. With these partners, the VIDA Token can be used as a method of payment to partially offset healthcare and related expenses. Examples include:
 21

o Insurancepremiums
o Co-pays,deductibles,andout-of-pocketexpenses
o Preventiveservices,primarycare
o Goods and services purchased from partner companies (e.g. pharmacies, physical
therapy providers, spas, nutrition stores, etc.)
• Tiered Reward Program – similar to an airline or debit/credit card reward program, patients and Providers will receive “status” benefits based on the total number of VIDA Tokens earned in a given year. Examples of such benefits include:
o Discountsoninsurancepremiums
o Discountsonco-pays,deductibles,andout-of-pocketexpenses
o Discounts on good and services provided by partner companies (e.g. pharmacies,
physical therapy providers, spas, nutrition stores, etc.)
o Accesstospecialbenefits(e.g.events,appfeatures,exerciseclasses,merchandise,etc.)
Figure 15: How various entities can participate in the redemption ecosystem
The scope of these benefits will utilize a tiered reward structure (e.g, bronze, silver, gold, platinum). The tier will be based on the total quantity of Tokens earned, not the balance of Tokens in the holder’s wallet at a specific point in time, thereby rewarding healthy behaviors and preventing a user from “buying their way” into a given tier. Movement into higher tiers will occur in real-time as users meet pre-defined thresholds, and movement into lower tiers will be assessed on a rolling 12-month basis from the time the user moved to the higher tier.
The tiered reward program shall be calculated based on algorithms.
For example, if a patient earns enough VIDA Tokens in September to qualify for gold tier, she will at least have gold tier till the following August. If she earns more VIDA Tokens in December that will qualify her for the platinum tier. After the following November, she may move down to other tiers based on the subsequent number of Tokens she earns.
  22

4.4 Tokenizing Healthcare and Consumer Technologies
In addition to the MintHealth app experience, The MintHealth Platform is also a Partner Platform as a Service (PaaS), whereby 3rd party healthcare and consumer companies can Vidamint and blockchain-enable their apps, devices and websites. Leveraging the MintHealth Partner PaaS with its native token incentive infrastructure and redemption ecosystem provides partners a streamlined entry into the Token Economy with its inherent benefits- and with negligible investment. Access to the MintHealth Partner PaaS will be accomplished through a comprehensive library of MintHealth Application Programming Interfaces (MHAPIs).
Figure 16: Token incentives drive patient engagement and consumer loyalty for existing stakeholders
 • Tokenizing Patient Behaviors (Figure 16a): Token Incentives for Providers and patients with chronic conditions will drive significant ROI for health systems, integrated delivery networks, self- insured employers, and insurance plans.
• Tokenizing Consumer Behaviors (Figure 16b): Promoting consumer loyalty for redemption of healthful goods and services through a diverse marketplace.
  Figure 16a Figure 16b
 23

4.5 Driving Patient Adoption
Patients will enroll in the MintHealth ecosystem through the MintHealth mobile app or web portal by establishing a profile that includes basic identify information:
Patient Profile Information
1. First name
2. Last name
3. Mobile Number
4. Email address
5. State of residence
6. Insurance Carrier
7. Other
A digital wallet and associated public/private keys will be created for the patient as part of the onboarding process. Interaction with the Platform will be through tools such as MetaMask, MyEtherWallet, Mist, or a command line. Once onboarding is complete, the system will designate a set of initial VIDA Tokens to encourage adoption and engagement with the Platform (Adoption Tokens). These Adoption Tokens will be funded by the Payer and will initially reside in an escrow vault smart contract that is linked to the patient’s new wallet address. Each Adoption Token will be tied to specific activities that incentivize and encourage the patient to actively participate on the Platform (Initial Adoption Activities), e.g.:
• Setting up the patient’s self-sovereign health record (see Section 4.6 below)
• Inputting key information, including the patient’s primary care physician and pharmacy
• Setting up and authenticating the patient’s approved devices
• Engaging in basic, easily achievable healthy behaviors to get the patient started (e.g. eating an apple)
Each time the patient completes an Adoption Activity, an Adoption Token will be transferred from the escrow vault to the patient’s digital wallet via smart contract. If the patient does not complete these Adoption Activities within the designated adoption period (e.g. 3-6 months from date of enrollment), unearned Adoption Tokens will be automatically returned to the original funding entity.
Email and phone details will be provided by patient as part of the sign-up process, and notifications will be sent reminding/encouraging the patient to complete their engagement activities and earn their Adoption Tokens prior the end of the three-month period.
4.6 Initializing Patient Self-Sovereign Health Identity and Record
Onboarded patients will be assigned the initial task of establishing their self-sovereign health identity and personal health record (Personal Health Record or PHR) in the MintHealth ecosystem. With privacy and security being of paramount importance, this PHR will be encrypted, and support to establish a self-sovereign health identity will be provided through MintHealth support services. The PHR will reside securely in the cloud and will be a global unique record of the patient’s individual health data. The objective of the PHR is to aggregate a patient’s disparate health information into a single dataset, optimizing the patient’s use of the Platform and overall management of personal health.
    24

Once this process is complete, the patient’s digital wallet will be linked to his/her PHR and associated ID on the Platform. The PHR will be self-sovereign, providing the patient with control of and access to their global, unique persistent identity throughout the MintHealth ecosystem. The patient will approve and manage access to their PHR in the MintHealth ecosystem. This self-sovereign ID is owned by the patient and can never be revoked or access to it prevented.
Self-sovereign identities are fully owned and controlled by the creator, and do not rely on centralized third parties for creation or validation. This identity is capable of storing the hash of various data points linked to the user like their biometric data, hash of their picture IDs, and other forms which can independently identify the user.
The unique ID will be implemented through a blockchain identity provider in decentralized trustless authentication, such as Uport, Civic, or Nuid, etc. These systems leverage artificial intelligence and verifying algorithms to detect the user login via different devices and locations, and in turn link their IDs to a global identifier. We will incorporate an automated process with a manual approval step to recover lost/forgotten credentials for the user. The exact process will be defined after the final selection of the identity provider.
4.7 Compensating Provider Administration
MintHealth views the Platform as a tool for achieving the important objective of aligning patient and Provider incentives to enhance patient health outcomes. To achieve this objective, the Platform is designed so that Providers act as “independent administrators” in partnership with patients for whom they collaborate in achieving healthy behaviors.
The Platform aligns patient and Provider incentives by empowering Providers to prescribe and agree upon behaviors for patients, enabling the transfer of VIDA Tokens to patients upon their successful completion. The ecosystem and its adoption will benefit from incentivizing Providers to play this administration/collaboration role. However, in many instances, the funding entity for the VIDA Tokens provided to both patient and Provider will be a third party (i.e. the Payer).
While the Provider is in the best position to arbitrate success of a patient’s behavior, that same Provider cannot also be compensated based on the results they are being asked to impartially judge. Therefore, the Provider will be compensated based on a separate metric: encouraging ongoing use and engagement by the patient in the Platform.
The Provider will receive a number of VIDA Tokens, funded by the Payer, which is independent of whether or not the patient successfully completes assigned behaviors or how many behaviors the Provider administers for the patient, thereby reducing incentive for the Provider/patient to collude or commit fraud.
4.8 Foundational Ecosystem Partners
• MD Revolution – a leading technology-enabled service platform for chronic disease management used by tens of thousands of patients and physicians nationwide. Its proprietary automated clinical tool is proven to reduce costs for insurance carriers. A recent case study of 3,500 patients with multiple chronic conditions demonstrated a 5x ROI for the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid services. MD Revolution is fully integrated with 6 top electronic health record vendors, and has established distribution channels with Greenway Health, athenahealth Inc., and eClinicalWorks. These distribution channels provide direct access to over 200,000 physicians and 100 million patients nationwide.
 25

• NucleusHealth – a leader in the business of moving and interpreting complex medical images and data to speed diagnosis, treatment planning, and ultimately, patient recovery. NucleusHealth seeks to create a new image management ecosystem that allows secure access by caregivers, patients, and their loved ones when they need it, from anywhere and on any device. This ecosystem also opens the door for developers to create a multitude of new applications such as tools for better workflow management and machine learning.
• Microsoft – a worldwide leader in software, services, devices, and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential. Microsoft Azure is an open, flexible, enterprise-grade cloud computing platform solution for proactive, personalized healthcare with security and compliance for sensitive data.
• IncentaHEALTH – a digital healthcare company dedicated to helping employers, communities, and consumers thrive by improving their health. Built around the principles of behavioral economics, incentaHEALTH delivers cash rewards for sustained weight loss success. Members receive daily email, text message, and app support in the form of a customized daily workout and complete meal plan. Every 90 days the patented HEALTHspot® scale is used to record a private, digital photo along with weight, body fat, and blood pressure (optional). Each member can then log in to their personal online dashboard, view their private photo gallery, and see their physical transformation as they improve their nutrition and exercise.
• Higi – a population health enablement company that empowers consumers to measure, track, and act on their health numbers – blood pressure, pulse, weight, BMI, body composition, and hydration through easily accessed Higi self-screening health stations currently found at over 11,000 retail locations. Healthcare organizations connect to their consumers through Higi to activate them in their health and to help them monitor their health data. In turn, healthcare organizations use Higi to identify and act on areas of risk, close care gaps, and improve chronic condition management. By empowering consumer self-management and more effectively connecting consumers to their trusted providers, Higi makes it easier for people to be their healthiest while enabling better care at lower cost.
• Polymath – a protocol to facilitate the primary issuance of and to restrict the secondary trading of blockchain security tokens. Polymath uses a blockchain-based protocol that provides a suite of tools to coordinate and incentivize participants to collaborate and launch financial products on the blockchain. By creating a standard token protocol which embeds defined requirements into the tokens themselves, these tokens can only be purchased and traded among verified participants. 1 Securities Regulation.
• StartEngine – an ICO platform that is built to support regulated ICOs with a myriad of features critical to meet regulations in the United States and internationally. The platform facilitates raises under existing exemptions from registration under the Securities Act, including Rule 506(c), Regulation A+ and Regulation Crowdfunding. To date, StartEngine has helped over 150 companies raise capital from nearly 140,000 users. Recently, StartEngine launched Overstock.com subsidiary tØ.com, Inc. (tZERO) as the first regulated ICO on its platform in compliance with Rule 506(c) under the Securities Act, in a sale limited to accredited investors. On March 1, 2018, tZERO launched its sale of tZERO Equity Tokens on StartEngine’s platform. tZERO’s offering is for $250M USD, with an option to upsize to $300M USD, and is available until May 14, 2018.
 26

Successful integration with partners will drive rapid adoption with other key corporate, commercial, and government health plans. The MintHealth organization has established an Ecosystem Development Team to execute these business development activities.
4.9 MintHealth, Inc.
MintHealth, Inc. is responsible for integrating existing technology platforms from NucleusHealth, MD Revolution, and Reachify into a blockchain-enabled platform for delivering preventive healthcare and chronic disease management (see Section 4.4 above). The business development team will leverage existing relationships with Payers, Providers, EHR vendors, health systems, and consumer health app companies for adoption of the Vidamint Token as noted above.
Notably, the company’s leadership team consists of successful entrepreneurs, healthcare, and technology executives with over 200 years of combined experience (see Section 8 below). The company is based in San Diego, California.
4.10 MintHealth Trust
A unique feature of MintHealth, will be the creation of MintHealth Trust, an entity that is expected to provide governance for the MintHealth ecosystem. MintHealth Trust is expected to be built on a set of formally established guiding principles that include, but are not limited to, the belief that patient data must be managed on a secure, protected, and HIPAA-compliant basis. The Trust is expected to play a critical role in defining the policies and procedures that govern the use and characteristics of this data. Because patients should have ultimate sovereignty over their personal identity and health record, they should have the ability to influence, guide and approve the corresponding data use policies. We envision that the Trust will create policies and submit them to the patient population for vote and ratification. The Trust board is expected to consist of members from leading healthcare companies, non-profit organizations, and patient advocacy groups.
4.11 MintHealth Platform and the Science of Patient Engagement
The MintHealth application (app) will be an evidenced-based tool using data, incentives, and gamification to engage patients across four key areas:
1. Awareness: Self-Tracking & Education 2. Social Support: A Strong Influencer
3. Gamification: Game of Goals
4. Financial Incentives: The Vidamint
Awareness (Figure 17): Figure 17 highlights the interface designed to i) raise consciousness and ii) control positive stimuli, two processes that are integral parts of the established Transtheoretical Model (TTM) of Behavioral Change.23 Under the TTM framework, the app supports making positive, intentional changes in behavior that result in improved health outcomes. This approach is further supported by randomized studies highlighting the smart phone as a platform for behavioral interventions. For example, Hartin and co-workers measured clinical outcomes relative to behavioral logs/day.24 Analysis of these logs against primary outcome measures revealed that participants who improved their high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels during the study duration answered a statistically significant higher number of questions per day (mean 8.30, SD 2.29) than those with no improvement (mean 6.52, SD 3.612), p=.003.
 27

   Figure 17a Figure 17b Figure 17c
Figure 17: Self-Tracking & Education
Figure 17 also demonstrates the app enabling a self-sovereign, secure, and free flowing health record between ecosystem participants – true data liquidity. The ability for the patient to serve as the steward of their own health record promotes patient empowerment, furthering a move toward improved health outcomes.
• Figure 17a: Training around disease management improves patient awareness
• Figure 17b: Self-tracking of relevant health data (e.g., blood pressure)
• Figure 17c: Seamless transfer of medical data highlights true data liquidity
Social Support (Figure 18): The MintHealth app will be designed to emphasize social network behavior that has been empirically shown to facilitate favorable behavior modifications for chronic diseases.7,18,20,24 Social networks employ a number of different mechanisms to help bring about change. The below figures highlight a number of support and exchange mechanisms, in addition to an influence mechanism.
• Figure 18a: Suggesting an additional bike ride the following week.
• Figures 18b and 18c: Illustrates a patient-centered community where Alice Connor, a patient with
hypertension and diabetes, has a series of exchanges with health coach Tracy Lyn. Importantly, studies support that methods of social intervention bring about sustained behavioral changes, a critical aspect to mitigating chronic diseases.25,26
 28

   Figure 18a Figure 18b Figure 18c Figure 18: A Strong Influencer
Gamification for Good (Figure 19): Gamification employs game mechanics in activities typically not thought of as games, such as health, to engage people by leveraging their natural tendencies for competition, achievement, collaboration and charity.
A growing body of literature demonstrates that gamification22 can enhance favorable health behavior modification. In fact, relative to a traditional public health campaigns, online gamification strategies were two (2) times as effective in impacting behavior change.25,27 Figure 19 demonstrates MintHealth’s persuasive app architecture. When applied to chronic diseases such as diabetes, gamification processes including goal setting, and reinforcement through reward, which are proven tactics to change health outcomes.23 Gamification draws on the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) and Johnson and co-workers recently conducted a systematic review of the literature related to health outcomes.28 In reviewing over 21 papers, 59% reported positive findings, with the evidence strongest for the use of gamification to target behavioral outcomes, particularly physical activity.
 29

  Figure 19: The Game of Goals Figure 20: The Vidamint
Financial Incentive for Health (Figure 20): Numerous studies support the role of financial incentives in modifying chronic behaviors. Kullgren and co-workers demonstrated financial incentives were effective for patients in weight-loss programs, both in the short-term and for longer-term maintenance.29 Additional studies support these findings in other areas of risky behaviors, including smoking cessation and HIV risk.20
Healthcare Providers also have been shown to change behavior in response to financial incentives,30,31 and the U.S. Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has leveraged those findings to introduce the Quality Payment Program (QPP), paying physicians more for higher quality outcomes (value-based care), in contrast to traditional fee-for-service (volume-based care). This is the same method used by the federal government successfully to increase the annual rate for EHR adoption by hospital Providers from 3.2% in the pre-period (2008-2010) to 14.2% in the post-period (2011-2015) using Meaningful Use financial incentives through the Healthcare Information Technology Economics and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009. During the same periods, non-eligible hospital Providers annual EHR adoption rates were 0.1% and 3.2%, respectively, showing the impact of the incentives.32 Vidamint incentives will be used to motivate and reward Providers to engage with their patients in developing actionable plans targeted towards patient involvement in achieving health. In short, both patients and Providers respond positively to financial incentives and the introduction of the Vidamint is poised to become the gold standard currency for health promotion.
The required patient engagement elements noted within this current section are currently being deployed in one form or another by two of our key partner organizations – NucleusHealth and MD Revolution. These organizations today are independently leveraging digital solutions for chronic disease management and health data interpretation and transfer. MintHealth will synthesize and integrate existing solutions into a single blockchain application to generate a liquid and self-sovereign personal health record and patient engagement tool. The company’s access to technology and associated intellectual property stem from inter-organization agreements and collaboration.
 30

MINTHEALTH ARCHITECTURE
5.1 MintHealth Platform
MintHealth’s central offering is self-sovereign identity management – empowering users with control of their health data. Patient health data will reside in storage allocated to each patient with access to that data controlled by the patient via the Ethereum blockchain. The Ethereum blockchain smart contract contains metadata about information sharing, role-based authentication control, and pointers to data residence. The contract does not contain electronic protected health information (ePHI) or other information which would not be considered public. Storage and access are important pieces of the patient controlled self-sovereign health record and fast access to data also has a meaningful real-time impact on patient care.
The MintHealth Platform will consist of two key components:
1. Patient Mobile App & Web Portal – a patient-focused app and portal that employs relevant content and the science of engagement to promote healthy behaviors and positive outcomes in patients with chronic conditions. This includes, but is not limited to, gamification and financial incentives. This Platform leverages an existing patient engagement platform developed by MD Revolution, one of two core technology partners of MintHealth (see Section 4.8 above). Communication with Providers and a patient’s expanded care team (family, friends, caregivers) provides the needed patient-centered community, while secure data transfer facilitates seamless identity and record management.
2. Provider Mobile App & Web Portal – a Provider-focused app that facilitates viewing of medical data and images. Access will have been granted by the patient via the MintHealth app. In addition to communication regarding care plans, collaboration tools to connect with expanded care Providers including screen share, live whiteboard, and video conferencing will coexist. This product offering leverages existing technology solutions provided by NucleusHealth, the second of MintHealth’s core technology partners.
  31

  HIPAA Compliant Cloud Systems
HTTPS
MDR Platform / Patient Generated Data
Record
Shares Metadata
        DICOM (HTTPS)
  EMR (Medical Record Data HTTPS )
            Nucleus / MDR Edge Server
    Shared Image Data
Authenticated Key Management
    Auto FWD
DICOM
Blockchain-Enabled DAPP
ACTIVE DIRECTORY
Shared Image Data
         PACS
EMR
     Figure 21: Blockchain-enabled flow of data
MintHealth will leverage Ethereum blockchain technology for federated health record sharing across multiple platforms in a decentralized fashion. MintHealth utilizes Azure Active Directory for federated identity and Azure Key Vault for key management. The problem of multiple identifiers for the same patient across multiple silo systems is solved by allowing patients and facilities to associate and tie together identities existing in different locations and in Ethereum blockchain metadata. This allows for multiple Ethereum blockchain identities to be associated as well as multiple medical record numbers or other medical identification systems to be combined into a global patient index (GPI).
 32

 5.2 Partner Integrations
Figure 22: Overview of smart contracts
MintHealth will consist of a set of resources deployed in Microsoft Azure that manages the patient engagement core content and application services. MintHealth is establishing technology licensing relationships with NucleusHealth, MD Revolution, and Reachify to accelerate development of the Platform and ecosystem. MintHealth will leverage NucleusHealth’s patient medical record storage and sharing (including NucleusHealth’s patented StatStream technology which allows for display of large complex data sets like medical images), MD Revolution’s Provider and patient portals for patient engagement and care management, and Reachify’s cloud communication technology for secure patient communication. These elements are integrated with the core MintHealth technology stack and blockchain implementation via API and hosted instances.
 33

 Figure 23: Hierarchy of resources deployed in MS Azure
5.3 Security & HIPAA Compliance
MintHealth’s Platform (consistent with HIPAA security standards) will provide access to electronic protected health information (ePHI), restricted based on roles and responsibilities, policies to govern the release or disclosure of protected health data, and secure data in transit via secure socket layer (SSL) and data at rest via AES 256 bit encryption. Also, other security measures for IT disaster recovery, network safeguard, system access, and geo-redundant backups protect data that is not encrypted on the blockchain.
Comprehensive security governance will be created to manage security measures and perform routine audits as part of MintHealth’s policies and procedures. These functions will verify security controls are up-to-date and implemented on a timely basis for application security, access controls, storage security, infrastructure security, and network security.
MintHealth will establish a HIPAA Business Associate Agreement (BAA) with Microsoft to comply with HIPAA and the HITECH Act. The HIPAA BAA covers in-scope Microsoft services, including: Azure Active Directory, Azure DNS, Azure Resource Manager, Key Vault, Security Center, Storage, Virtual Machines, Virtual Network, VPN Gateway, and supporting infrastructure and Platform services.
 34

SECURITY TOKEN STRUCTURE
Industry analysts and leaders predict that 25% ($20 trillion) of the existing global equity market of $80 trillion will be security tokens in the next 3 to 5 years, driven primarily by the massive influx of institutional capital.33 At MintHealth, we are leveraging the benefits that are inherent in both types of tokens (utility and security) by creating a two-token structure, whereby the tokens will be linked in a way that enables stakeholders to participate in the growth of the MintHealth blockchain ecosystem, while capitalizing on the projected growth and regulatory compliant nature of security tokens.
MintHealth VidamintsTM (VIDA) will operate as the rewards and incentive system on the MintHealth Platform where patients will earn VIDA as a reward for completing healthy activities. Patients will then be able to redeem VIDA for rewards in a similar fashion to frequent flier miles or other loyalty program point systems. In this case, the purchaser of the Vidamints will be insurance companies, corporate wellness programs, and any other entity that takes on the financial risk in caring for patients with diseases like obesity, diabetes, and hypertension, among many other preventable, chronic conditions. The VIDA Token will not be used for capital raising. It will be a loyalty/utility token that is sold at a fixed price and will be tracked and transparent via the blockchain.
MintHealth Tokens (MHST) will be a security token offered through a Regulation D private sale process. MintHealth is also exploring opportunities to offer MHST through regulatory compliant sale(s) via the JOBS Act exemptions. The MHST Token will entitle holders to i) a 10% royalty percentage of revenues generated through the sale of VIDA by MintHealth and ii) equity ownership in MintHealth. This structure provides a unique balance of participation in ecosystem growth and an equity ownership stake in MintHealth as a company.
  ROADMAP
   35

7.1 Phase I: Core Ecosystem Creation – Key Capabilities
Phase I(a) – Create a virtuous cycle that rewards patients for healthy behaviors and Providers for value-based care. Table 1 below outlines the areas of the platform wherein MintHealth will use blockchain technology to complete Phase 1(a).
Table 1 - Solution 1(a) Components
   Solution Component
      Blockchain Enabled
   Incentive System
     Y
   Gamification System
     Y
   Token Transaction & Management System
       Y
    Permission Framework
    Y
   Phase I(b) – Patient self-sovereign personal health data Table 2 below outlines the areas of the Platform wherein MintHealth will use blockchain technology to complete Phase 1(b).
Table 2 - Solution 1(b) Components
   Solution Component
      Blockchain Enabled
   Global, Unique Patient Identifier
    Y
   Permission Framework
      Y
   Data Model
    Y
   Blockchain Framework
    Y
   Phase I(c) – Provide access to patient data on a secure, privacy aware basis. Table 3 below outlines the areas of the Platform wherein MintHealth will use blockchain technology to complete Phase 1(c).
Table 3 – Solution I(c) Components
   Solution Component
      Blockchain Enabled
   Roles & Authentication System Permission Framework
      Y
   Identity Management
    Y
    36

7.2 Phase II: Provider Identity and Incorporation of MIPS
Phase II(a) – to compliment the patient’s self-sovereign health identity, MintHealth will develop a secure, unique identify for the Provider, similarly powered and managed by blockchain. This will enable precise communications to occur between patient and Provider, based on the authority of the patient to determine the exact Providers with whom they wish to share their health information. This unique Provider identifier will have many uses, including the ability of MintHealth ecosystem participants to create patient-specific care teams, no longer limited by the organizational construct to which the physician belongs (i.e. a specific hospital) or insurance network the patients’ insurance plan dictates. True patient empowerment and Provider independence will be a key objective.
Phase II(b) - As reimbursement and the U.S. healthcare system evolves to the value-based model, MintHealth will evaluate the incorporation of the MIPS program of MACRA into the Compensating Provider Administration token mechanism (see Section 6.3 above). This program has the potential to further align Provider incentives with healthy patient outcomes. MintHealth will assess and integrate the MIPS program into the token mechanism once i) it has reached sufficient adoption across the healthcare sector, and ii) MintHealth is comfortable it will enable the Provider to continue acting as an impartial arbitrator of patient success.
7.3 Phase III: Virtuous Cycle for Health Data
Phase III – Self-sovereign sharing of clinical and behavioral data to ecosystem stakeholders for research and
development and to facilitate innovation of medical therapies and services.
In this phase, patients through the MintHealth app, would elect to share data with other ecosystem participants for the purpose of furthering research and development. In exchange, ecosystem participants would remunerate patients for their contributions with Vidamints. The MintHealth Platform will enable pharma, life science, medical device, Payers, and academic ecosystem participants to instantaneously access large and growing patient data sets (via smart contracts) that will further the understanding of key drivers of disease and health and transform the way in which chronic disease populations are studied. The information gleaned will be used to develop highly innovative and more cost-effective therapies and services.
TEAM
8.1 Founders & Board of Directors
Dr. Samir Damani – Chief Executive Officer & Director Dr. Damani founded MD Revolution with the vision of building the gold standard technology enabled service platform for chronic care management (CCM). Today, MDR is the leading platform in the nation for Medicare’s CCM program, leveraged by thousands of patients and Providers across the nation. MD Revolution integrates patient generated data, electronic health records, physician workflow, and billing for the purpose of optimizing population health management. He has served in multiple strategic and operational roles, as well as led efforts in raising over $43 million for the founding vision as CEO. Dr. Damani remains highly active as an MD Revolution Board Member and involved in strategy and clinical oversight. He also serves as a Clinical Instructor in the Department of Family & Preventive Medicine for the UC San Diego Medical School and is a board-certified practicing cardiologist at Scripps Clinic – a top 20 US News and World Report heart care center.
Dr. Damani has also served as a scientific advisor for the prominent journal, Science Translational Medicine, and continues to serve as a reviewer for Nature Genetics, Annals of Internal Medicine, American Journal of Cardiology, and the Journal of the American College of Cardiology. In addition to his medical training, Dr. Damani has a Doctorate in Pharmacy from the University of Georgia and a Masters in Clinical Investigation from the Scripps Research Institute.
  37

Dr. Vishal Verma – Director Dr. Verma, a serial entrepreneur, and board certified radiologist is the CEO of NucleusHealth, an active leader in cloud medical data management and interpretation of complex medical images to speed diagnosis, and treatment planning. Under the leadership of Dr. Verma, NucleusHealth has grown nearly 5X since 2010 and now currently provides service to over 400 facilities for teleradiology and over 2400 facilities for cloud medical image management. Dr. Verma’s focus has been empowering patients with greater access and control of their healthcare journey by leveraging novel technologies like blockchain.
Dr. Verma’s extensive background in radiology, combined with a passion for better workflows and solutions to improve patient care while lowering costs, all started with a medical degree from the University of Miami. Dr. Verma served as a Chief Resident at the University of Chicago and then completed an MRI fellowship at the University of California, San Diego. He is currently licensed to practice in all 50 states. Dr. Verma has a strong track record of entrepreneurship and enjoys the challenge of bringing new ideas to market.
Wyche T. Green, III – Non-Executive Director “Tee” is the Executive Chairman and former CEO of Greenway HealthTM, where he has served in leadership roles since its founding in 1998. Greenway Health’s solutions are deployed at nearly 10,000 medical groups, clinics, and enterprises across the U.S., where they’re used by more than 75,000 clinical professionals to improve patient care and to manage their financial and administrative processes more efficiently. A knowledgeable authority on healthcare reform, Mr. Green has been a contributing author on multiple scholarly articles in addition to authoring a chapter of the 2010 sequel to the award-winning book, Paper Kills. During his tenure at Greenway, Mr. Green has been involved in a total of six separate rounds of capital-raising activities, including to two separate private equity partners, raising a total of $87.5 million. In February 2012, Greenway completed an initial public offering, raising proceeds of $77 million. Mr. Green has recently led Greenway through a go private transaction with Vista Equity Partners with an all cash transaction of $644 million. A serial entrepreneur, Mr. Green has started several companies prior to Greenway Health across a wide array of business areas including transportation, hotel development, venture investing, agriculture/farming, music, and entertainment, and, of course, active participation in several software companies.
8.2 Executive Management & Team
Dr. Jean Balgrosky – Chief Information Officer Dr. Balgrosky, a CIO with 30 years experience, is CIO of MD Revolution and former CIO of large, complex healthcare organizations, including Scripps Health and Holy Cross Health System (now Trinity Health). She is founder of Bootstrap Incubation, LLC, a firm established to invest, mentor, and grow life science and health information technology start-ups, including women-owned businesses. With a PhD in Health Services from UCLA Fielding School of Public Health, Jean serves on that school’s faculty, teaching Health Information Systems and Technology, and serves on the FSPH Dean’s Advisory Board. She is author of Essentials of Health Information Systems and Technology, a graduate-level textbook for graduate health administration and management programs educating health administrators, clinicians, managers, and policy professionals about health information technology. She is currently authoring another textbook, Understanding Health Information Systems for Health Professions.
Patrick Daly – Chief Financial Officer Patrick is an entrepreneurial executive with greater than 5 years of start- up experience serving as a CFO and COO. With over 18 years with Deloitte and Ernst & Young’s accounting, tax and management consulting firms, he has successfully led teams in key operational areas involving finance, ERP implementations, IT infrastructure, strategic business planning, debt and equity financing, and e-commerce.
Jeremy “Jerry” Gross – Chief Strategy Officer Jerry brings 20+ years of C-level leadership in digital health and technology in the Fortune 100, as well as experience founding commercially successful technology startups in Health Care, Financial Services and Infrastructure. Prior to joining MintHealth, Jerry held senior technology and product software development leadership roles at Amgen, McKesson, Bank of America, JP Morgan, and Intuit. Throughout his career, he has developed and launched industry-leading digital products in the Health Care, Financial Services and Technology industries. As Senior Strategy Advisor, Jerry advises MintHealth on all aspects
 38

of the business and operating models, product development & management as well as platform architecture and digital technologies. Jerry is a graduate of the David Syme School of Business at Monash University in Melbourne Australia and is a recipient of the Moxie Award for the Best Digital Innovation as well as the Network World User Excellence Award.
Tyson S. McDowell – Chief Technology Officer Tyson is a serial incubator of new entrepreneurs in consumer tech, enterprise tech, and aviation. Prior to MintHealth, Mr, McDowell was President of Avadyne Health which was recently sold to growth private equity. Prior to Avadyne, he co-founded Benchmark Revenue Management in 2002, a software company focused on Hospital Revenue Cycle where he served as CEO and CTO, culminating in the merger of Avadyne and Benchmark in 2012. He has developed innovative solutions to complex problems including early development of Shopping Cart web applications, distributed parallel processing, and a novel software architecture that allowed web-based software to behave more like advanced business applications, well before the advent of modern AJAX and HTML5 technologies. While business became his focus, Aviation remains a core passion. Mr. Tyson is a certified private pilot with instrument, multi-engine, helicopter, and various type ratings. Over 13 years, he and a partner built and now fly a Velocity XL RG kit airplane, operated and maintained an ex-Soviet L-39C Albatross Jet, and is an avid aerobatic pilot. He has logged well over 2,000 flight hours. Mr. Tyson is a member of the Young President’s Organization (YPO) Coastal San Diego chapter, and is Vice Chairman of the San Diego Air and Space Museum
Courtney Hooton – Director of Communications Courtney brings an extensive background in media and corporate finance to her role. Prior to MintHealth, Courtney was an investment banker working in leverage debt capital markets at Deutsche Bank. She also worked in business development for Viacom in their marketing division, Scratch. She and her sisters co-founded and operated GolferGirl Magazine which had a national circulation of over 10,000 with subscribers in 50 states as well as in Canada and Mexico. Courtney is a graduate of Harvard University and was a nationally ranked Junior and D-1 collegiate golfer winning four consecutive conference championships.
8.3 Collaboration Partners & Technical Team
Raleigh Harbour is a seasoned executive with nearly 20 years of experience in blockchain technology, SaaS software, online media, digital advertising, eCommerce, and business services. Raleigh currently serves as Co- Founder and Managing Partner of Genesis Block, a venture production studio focused on developing decentralized protocols, infrastructure, and applications leveraging blockchain technology. Through in-house innovation, vertical partnerships, and strategic investments, Genesis Block accelerates the disruptive potential of blockchain and fosters its growth and adoption across every aspect of our lives.
Tanuj Nigam is a serial entrepreneur and technology/product co-founder of multiple start-ups. He is a senior architect and has developed multiple blockchain DApps for large commercial enterprises, government organizations, and startups across a wide variety of sectors. Tanuj has 20+ years of experience developing enterprise software for clients such as Bank of America, Experian, and Allianz Insurance.
Umesh Lalwani founded and managed Assigncorp, a technology consulting firm with over $130 million in revenue and 20+ years of experience building scalable solutions for large enterprise companies and startups. He is leveraging the blockchain paradigm to define next-generation solutions to the systemic challenges in health care and public policy. Umesh draws on many years of working in the healthcare, fintech, and entertainment sectors to define solutions for a client’s mission critical goals. Umesh has a passion for creative business models and loves to find synergy between business goals and collective human psychology.
Rafique Khan is a founder of Adroitsoft Inc., an entrepreneur and a senior healthcare IT consultant. Rafique leverages his 17+ years of healthcare experience working with large enterprises such as Kaiser Permanente to
 39

develop leading-edge solutions that improve safety and quality of patient care, reduce costs, and maximizing return on investment for client organizations.
Parker Hinshaw, founder of MaxIT Healthcare and CEO of MD Revolution, is a serial entrepreneur with 40 years of experience in the healthcare information technology and Provider space. He is also a principal of Bootstrap Incubation, LLC, and has started and run numerous companies in the healthcare and information technology spaces. Parker has a lifelong commitment to innovation in healthcare using information technology and believes passionately in the power of prevention and patient empowerment.
8.4 Advisors
Stan Miroshnik, Managing Director and CEO of The Element Group. Element is a full-service advisory firm for the digital token capital markets that delivers advisory, capital markets, technology, and asset management services in an integrative manner. Mr. Miroshnik has held numerous C-level roles in the financial services space. Stan is experienced in capital markets, corporate finance, private equity, and operations in the blockchain / financial technology (FinTech) space. Stan’s current focus is on distributed ledger, digital assets, tokenization, and cryptocurrency. Stan is interested in working at the intersection of capital markets and crypto-equity to make tokenization viable within the traditional regulatory framework and deliver smart-contract driven share-like mechanisms and rights to asset holders. Stan has a BS in Molecular Biology and Business Administration and Finance from University of California, Berkley as well as an MBA from MIT.
Lou Kerner, Founding Partner, CryptoOracle. CryptoOracle is a VC and Advisory firm focused exclusively on companies leveraging blockchain, cryptocurrency, smart contracts, and decentralization. Lou has been a Crypto enthusiast, investor, and thought leader since 2013, and is recognized as one of the most influential Crypto bloggers. Lou regularly hosts conference calls with Crypto industry innovators attended by hundreds of Crypto enthusiasts from around the world. Lou was previously a Partner at the decentralized VC, Flight, where he managed The Israel Founders Syndicate, which invested in tech companies founded by Israelis. Lou was an angel investor, best known for investing in Facebook and writing the first Wall Street style research report on the company in 2010. Before angel investing, Lou ran Bolt (the largest social network before MySpace), and .tv, which commercialized the top-level domain (.tv) licensed from the nation of Tuvalu. Lou had a distinguished career as an equity analyst following media & tech companies for Goldman Sachs & Merrill Lynch. Lou has a BA from UCLA and an MBA from The Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Igor Denisov, VP of Strategy, Polymath. Polymath is an interface between financial securities and the blockchain, simplifying the process for issuers to overcome the complex technical and legal challenges of a successful token launch. Igor leads strategic partnerships and integration for core platform competencies and broader services to security token issuers and investors. Prior to Polymath, Igor had a five-year career in Investment Banking at GMP Securities and BMO Capital markets. Igor holds a BASc in Engineering Science, Infrastructure and Finance from University of Toronto.
Ran Neu-Ner, Founder and CEO, The Creative Counsel. The Creative Counsel is one of South Africa’s largest advertising agencies. Ran is currently the host of Crypto Trader show on CNBC Africa. He is a serial entrepreneur who started an import-export business after school. The Creative Counsel has grown exponentially, through the acquisition of new clients as well as other businesses in the advertising and marketing sector attracting the attention of Publicis Groupe, who bought his company in September 2015. The company was acquired by Publicis in a deal valuing it at over $1.5 billion. In 2018, Ran was voted one of the 100 most influential people in Crypto by Crypto Weekly.8 He was further recognized by Richtopia as one of the most influential people in blockchain. Ran has a Bachelor of Commerce and CFA from the University of Witwatersrand.
 40

Jeremy Sohn joined Novartis, in November 2015, as VP of Digital Business Development & Licensing supporting Novartis’ Digital Medicines program cross-divisionally. In 2016, Jeremy also served as Global Head of Digital Development within Novartis, Global Drug Development. Jeremy is a serial software entrepreneur with more than 17 years of experience founding, managing and advising both healthcare and technology companies. Prior to Novartis, Jeremy was Managing Director & Operating Partner at MPM Capital where he led the firm’s digital health investment strategy and partnership with Novartis. At MPM, Jeremy founded two companies, CentrosHealth (a mobile, patient-engagement platform designed to improve the patient experience during clinical trials, acquired by Clinical Ink) and TriNetX (a federated network of clinical data warehouses that optimizes clinical trial protocol design and patient recruitment).
Mark Jeffrey is a serial entrepreneur and author. He has co-founded five internet companies (three exits) and written eight books, including the Max Quick series (Harper Collins). Three times, he has conceptualized and built consumer products that generated millions of registered users in the first year. Most recently, Mark founded Guardian Circle, an app that lets friends, family and neighbors protect one another (GuardianCircle.com). He is also an early pioneer of crypto-currencies, having published two of the first books on Bitcoin: Bitcoin Explained Simply (2012) and The Case for Bitcoin (2015). His previous companies include The Palace (backed by Time Warner, Intel and SoftBank; sold to Communities’ in 1998 with 10 million users), Zero Degrees (a business social network sold to InterActiveCorp / IAC in 2004 with 1 million users) and ThisWeekIn (co-founded with Kevin Pollak and Jason Calacanis). He was also the founding CTO of Mahalo / Inside.com (backed by Elon Musk, Sequoia, Mark Cuban and others). Mark also consulted for several years directly for Travis Kalanick, now CEO of Uber, on his first company Red Swoosh. Mark’s first book, Max Quick: The Pocket and the Pendant, was published in hardcover and e-book by HarperCollins in May 2011. It was initially podcast as a series of episodic mp3’s and received over 2.5 million downloads. Mark Jeffrey holds a BS in Computer Science from the University of New Hampshire. He is a TEDx speaker and was a featured speaker at the very first Harvard Conference on the Internet and Society.
Hector Rodriguez, Worldwide Health Chief Information Security Officer, Microsoft, leads Microsoft’s work in health cloud compliance, health standards, cybersecurity and privacy, and blockchain in health. Hector works to ensure that healthcare security, privacy and compliance are foundational to Microsoft’s healthcare digital transformation strategy. His work is aligned with a covered entity’s “Triple/Quadruple Aim” objectives to improve the patient and caregiver experience, improve population health and reduce costs.
Hector works extensively with industry and academic groups including WEDI-SNIP, HL/7, AHIP, HIMSS, HITRUST, and CAQH. He is currently a board advisor of the Samueli Institute for health research, a founding member of the HITRUST Business Associate Council. He is also a health industry and cybersecurity curriculum advisor for University of Connecticut and Seton Hall University. Hector is a notable speaker for Microsoft’s executive briefing center, partner conferences, and HIMSS on “Cybersecurity and the Trusted Healthcare Cloud” and “Healthcare Digital Transformation”. Hector began his career in 1982 as a software engineer at Bell Research Laboratories and has been in the IT business for over 30 years. Hector has an MBA in Management Finance and Entrepreneurship and a BA in Computer Science from Rutgers University.
Chris Hafey, Chief Technology Officer, NucleusHealth, holds multiple patents in medical informatics and imaging. He is a sought-after speaker and thought leader in both medical imaging and blockchain applications in healthcare. Chris is the primary architect behind NucleusHealth’s patented streaming technology for viewing medical images at lightning speed using any modern web browser. Chris led a team that placed second at the 2017 ONC Blockchain in Healthcare Code-a-thon after developing a prototype for sharing of medical imaging using blockchain. Prior to NucleusHealth, Chris served as CTO for OnPoint Medical Diagnostics, Chief Architect at Vital Images, Director of Engineering at Stentor and other leadership roles for many breakthrough technology firms. He has an engineering degree from California State University, Chico.
 41

Ken Brook is a serial entrepreneur and has built technology companies from the ground up since 2010. His most recent accomplishment is co-founding and serving as CEO of MetaX, the first platform to unlock the blockchain for online advertising - adChain. Most recently, Ken founded and currently still serves as CEO of VidRoll, a video technology and monetization partner for premium content publishers. Previously, Ken started StreamRoll Media, a cross-screen adtech company, in 2013, and earlier in his career held positions in both traditional and digital media. MetaX is a blockchain-based protocol and token factory.
Larry Smarr, the Harry E. Gruber Professor of Computer Science and Information Technologies, joined the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) faculty in 2000 and became the founding director of the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology in December 2000. Prior to UCSD, he was the founder and 15-year director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications and the National Computational Science Alliance, both based at the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana (UIUC). Professor Smarr is a widely-quoted authority on the future of information technology and telecommunications. He is a pioneer in prototyping a national information infrastructure to support academic research, governmental functions, and industrial competitiveness, and played a pivotal role in the development of the Internet and high- performance computing.
Joseph C. Kvedar, MD, Vice President, Partners Connected Health, is creating a new model of healthcare delivery, developing innovative strategies to move care from the hospital or doctor’s office into the day-to-day lives of patients. He is the author of The Internet of Healthy Things, describing how everyday objects will capture and use real-time biometric data to ultimately change behavior to improve our health. Under Dr. Kvedar’s two decades of leadership, Partners Connected Health has launched a number of innovative mobile health programs, virtual care initiatives, and clinical research programs for the more than 1.5 million patients served at Partners HealthCare-affiliated hospitals, including Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital, community and specialty hospitals, community health centers, home care and other health-related entities. Partners connected health programs are helping Providers and patients better manage chronic conditions, maintain health and wellness, and improve adherence, engagement and clinical outcomes.
Mike Klieger, MD, Dr. Klieger is a serial entrepreneur and board certified physician. Serving as a strategic advisor at MintHealth, Dr. Klieger leverages expertise in healthcare and blockchain. Co-founding VarshylBen Ventures has led to several startups, with an emphasis on mobile application development. Current ventures include SnapWorks, an educational platform. Dr. Klieger has special interest in Precision Medicine and healthcare artificial intelligence. His medical training spans Neurology at the Weill Cornell Medical Center and Neuroradiology at the NYU Medical Center.
 42
