Supply Chain and Blockchain: The Future of Pharmacy.The interest in Blockchain and distributed ledger technology (DLT)has exploded in recent years with a large focus on the financial industry. Meanwhile, medical and pharmaceutical companies around the world are looking to DLT as a means of solving, securing, and streamlining their businesses. While there are many applications for DLT within the medical industry, one area where the technology excels is within supply chains. With sales ranging from US$163 billion to $217 billion per year, according to industry estimates, counterfeit pharmaceuticals are the most lucrative sector of the global trade in illegally copied goods. Fraudulent drugs harm or kill millions around the world and inflict serious damage on the brand names and bottom lines of major pharmaceutical manufacturers.A blockchain based system could excel in the instance of protecting consumers against counterfeit pharmaceuticals by encoding a log that would detail each stop within the supply chain. In this instance, consumers would be able to check a digital archive in order to ensure the legitimacy of their medication. The distributed nature of the technology ensures that all actors within the pipeline are not making dubious changes to the log. The Drug Quality and Security Act (DSCSA) is a regulation that requires an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace prescription drugs distributed in the United States. This law was originally passed in 2013 but won’t take full effect until 2023. Other countries are implementing similar programs. All manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers of prescription drugs in the U.S. market are required to comply.Blockchain’s immutability and provenance capability provide the basis for tractability of drugs from manufacture to end consumer, identifying where the supply chain breaks down. With the DSCSA regulations looming companies like MediLedger Project and SimplyVital are leading the pack with their healthcare oriented blockchain technologies. MediLedger is a collaboration between Chronicled and The LinkLab, bringing together both pharmaceutical supply chain and blockchain technologies. Their intention is to advance the dialogue of a blockchain utility to enhance pharma companies’ ability to manage their supply chains.SimplyVital has developed two products for the healthcare industry, both of which address different aspects; ConnectingCare and Health Nexus. ConnectingCare is designed for healthcare providers, such as a hospital. The technology enables customers to streamline data to save time and money. According to Lucas Hendren (Simply Vital’s CTO),“It uses care coordination and financial forecasting to help providers in bundled payments get insight into what happens to patients when they leave the hospital. It is a strategic early use case for blockchain in healthcare because it uses blockchain as an immutable audit trail.” ConnectingCare has already hit with its minimal viable product.Health Nexus which is another blockchain protocol crafted by Simply Vital is assisting the medical industry and consumer in storing, distributing, and securing medical data. Not only that, but Health Nexus will allow individuals to sell their data to interested 3rd parties through a secure pipeline and marketplace. Blockchain protocols like Health Nexus are likely to play a large in medical research. These protocols will also tighten consumer feedback loops and potentially save lives.Blockchain has already made an impact in the medical industry, and it’s only looking to gain speed from here. Healthcare Rallies for Blockchain, a study from IBM, found that 56% of surveyed healthcare executives had solid plans to implement a commercial blockchain solution by 2020. As the abilities of machine learning and artificial intelligence further leak into the medical industry, the need for a blockchain solution will increase exponentially.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
Can Bitcoin Be Useful For Healthcare Costs and a Health Savings Account?.It’s become quite clear that the blockchain is going to be a very useful technology in the healthcare system. Often thought of as the truly impactful aspect of the emergence of Bitcoin, the blockchain allows for simplified record-keeping, transactions, and communication – and it may well be that we’re only just scratching the surface of its utility. In healthcare and elsewhere, people have been coming up with fascinating and useful twists on the blockchain for the last few years, and there’s no indication that innovation is slowing down. The possibilities are endless.Healthcare costs and you health savings accountBut while the blockchain is undeniably useful in this industry, can the currency for which it was initially developed serve any purpose? Can Bitcoins be useful in relation to healthcare?This may sound like an odd question, given how significant healthcare costs are, and how formal the payments tend to be. At first thought, it may seem like an industry in which Bitcoin usage just isn’t necessary or practical. That said, however, we have seen the leading cryptocurrency making its way into a few industries specifically with regard to making payments safely and securely.The first example that comes to mind is PayPal, which has partnered with a popular Bitcoin exchange to allow users to sell Bitcoin and cash out to their PayPal accounts. That basically means they can finance PayPal accounts through Bitcoin, partnering two types of digital transaction that exist for purposes of safety and security. PayPal is essentially meant to be a mode of online payment for which personal information does not need to be provided in individual transactions; Bitcoin is meant to be entirely anonymous, and therefore entirely safe. The partnership essentially compounds the feelings of security that Bitcoin and PayPal users typically feel.The second example actually involves the same two services, but specifically relates to online gaming. It is perhaps no surprise to hear that online casino platforms started accepting PayPal as a deposit and withdrawal method some time ago (for the same reasons of safety and security mentioned above). Going by the first example that means that some could be using Bitcoin to funnel money into these kinds of deposits. But we’ve also begun to see some similar platforms accepting Bitcoin payments directly – as a safe, efficient, and reliable means of payment.Clearly, a pattern is beginning to emerge. While Bitcoin is also useful for a lot of more casual purchases, such as those at online retail shops, some of the biggest adoptions of its use have been in industries where financial security is paramount. This could certainly be applied to healthcare, not because anonymity is particularly important, but because payments need to be made on time, and can be steep in nature.Paying for medicine and treatments, particularly when they may not be fully covered by insurance, can be a very significant hurdle. And complications, either with payments or with procuring treatment, can be devastating. The idea of having a reliable, digital means of paying for these things, in addition to a blockchain that records the transaction indisputably, will undoubtedly appeal to many patients. For that matter, it may benefit hospitals and pharmacies as well, as it could conceivably cut down on issues in which patients or those close to them may attempt to abuse prescriptions and get more than they should.It could also become easy and normal for people with Health Savings Accounts to fund those accounts via Bitcoin. We’ve already seen articles about adding Bitcoins to retirement funds, and the higher the price of the cryptocurrency soars, the more valuable this idea becomes. Now, an HSA doesn’t work the same way, in that it’s meant to be used rather than saved. But account values do tend to roll over from one year to the next, and some may like the idea of funding these accounts with Bitcoins in the hopes that they’ll appreciate, and thus lessen the need for further payments the next year.To be clear, these practices – buying medication or funding HSA accounts via Bitcoin – are not normal or even necessarily possible yet. But the way we’ve seen Bitcoin adopted in other industries in which safety, security, and reliability are particularly important, it will be interesting to see if the cryptocurrency can take hold in healthcare.
An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to Blockchain.An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to BlockchainThe internet is an anonymous place, and that anonymity makes things like buying good or procuring services from across borders and seas quite easy. Unfortunately, the same anonymity also makes it incredibly difficult to keep a record of the transaction that is not nebulous. Thanks to a new system derived from Cloud Computing, much similar to Cryptocurrencies themselves, that is set to change.This technology is called Blockchain. And it follows a pretty simple scheme to get a retrievable, non-alterable account of all your online transactions via cryptocurrencies available for record.When you transfer a sum of money via Bitcoin, Ethereum or another cryptocurrency to someone else, the transaction is recorded in a block of data. This block cannot be altered or tampered with, which is the base of the transparency of the system. The data does not use your real world identity either, if that’s what you prefer. The data is thus certain and definitive, yet respectful of privacy.This block of data is then stored in folders. Several copies of this data are stored on multiple devices, giving rise to a chain-like structure if you trace the path of the information. This is what earns the system the name Blockchain. The chain helps ensure there are multiple copies of the data available, so that even if one device is inaccessible at any point of time, the data is still available. The data is reliable since the same can be verified across the links in the chain.What’s more, the makers of the system have even figured a way to reward members of the chain monetarily. This sum can be treated as compensation for the CPU resources and electric power consumed in the process.Blockchains have a whole other dimension where we may soon see them contribute significantly. One such unlikely sphere is voting. As vital as it is to any true democracy, voting and counting fraud is a reality that many budding as well as established democracies struggle with. Blockchain based online voting systems may bring a welcome shift in trends towards a more transparent and reliable system of representation, eliminating counterfeit votes as well as ballot stuffing.The system can also benefit systems where booking services from the government may be involved, since it can eliminate bookies and fake representations as well as sale of anything from train tickets to contracts in the black market.Corporates like Walmart too are waking up to the benefits this system could bring to them. Blockchain has the potential to be the inventory management tool the world has been lacking all this while, bringing us an easy way to order and sell raw material as well as finished product with every minute movement on the market and its trends. It could be the next market revolution after share trading! Isn’t that something?Author Bio: Stacy Miller has been blogging ever since she was in high school. Her love for technology and disdain for generic Hollywood movies has only grown over the years. You can find more of her writing on Techiespad.com
2017 Blockchain Conference Washington D.C..As virtual currencies soar past expectations and reach new heights, the interest in Blockchain technology grows. The implications are huge across the board. Diverse sectors are hoping to harness Blockchain technology’s potential to replicate successes seen in the financial services arena.2ND ANNUAL BLOCKCHAIN CONFERENCE WASHINGTON D.C. 2017The Harvard Business Review explains how this potential is already being explored in healthcare as a way to process transactions efficiently and securely. Estonia’s health care system is one such case study. It adopted Blockchain technology in response to a 2007 breach that left patient data vulnerable. This aggressive and innovative response is an example of how the technology can be applied to improve processes and reduce vulnerabilities in healthcare.To help decision-makers learn more about the technology and how it can be applied, the second annual Blockchain Conference in Washington, D.C., is being held July 28, 2017. The one-day event, which takes place at George Washington University, provides an opportunity for leaders in healthcare, government, finance, tech, venture capital, and logistics to meet and discuss Blockchain/DLT technology.It’s billed as a fast-paced conference that includes top speakers and offers attendants networking time to connect with each other. Here’s a review of some of the most important agenda items taking place at the D.C. Blockchain Conference:Where we stand with Blockchain technology todayThe first panel of the day, Blockchain State of Play, looks at the current marketplace and provides an evaluation of how things have changed over the past year to understand what the landscape looks like now, where it’s come from, and where it’s likely headed next.The resurgence (and rise) of virtual currencyA keynote will explore the resurgence of virtual currencies, coins, and token-based systems. Looking at the recent booms in Bitcoin and Ethereum, in particular, this session discusses what has driven prices up and sparked a lot of interest in Blockchain technology.A look at regulations and standardsLater, experts will provide an update on how regulations are impacting digital currency. Currently, innovation and adoption of Blockchain technology are outpacing laws and regulations, but this is likely to change in the near future.An Introduction to Initial coin offerings (ICOs)Learn about this crypto-financing technique, an unregulated method of fundraising for cryptocurrency venture that side-steps traditional capital-raising processes, and what are considered to be the pros and cons of this fast-evolving process.How Blockchain can be used for goodThe second keynote looks at how Blockchain is changing global development programs and explores its potential to be useful in other capacities. Experts agree the Blockchain could ameliorate such grand problems as poverty, hunger, and corruption, but exactly how to get there is still up for debate.Blockchain beyond financial servicesLearn more about how Blockchain technology can be used in capacities other than as a digital currency, such as transparent supply chains, secure transmission of patient data, and records management.Expert predictions for the short-term futureThere have been a lot of exciting developments in Blockchain technology during the past year, but what’s next? Close out the day at the conference by hearing Blockchain experts share their predictions on what’s ahead for this game-changing technology. They will offer an outlook on what to expect from Blockchain technology by 2020.Event organizers anticipate the 2017 conference will build on the success of last year’s inaugural Blockchain Conference in Washington, which had a diverse audience and impressive line-up of speakers. This list included representatives from Microsoft,  IBM, the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer’s Research, GWU, and the Federal Trade Commission.Some of the speakers lined up for this year’s conference include:Luis Carranza, Fintech Founder and CEO Susan Poole, Blockbridge Advisory Founder Tom Plunkett, Oracle Consulting Solutions Director Brendan Blumer, Block.one CEO Jack Shaw, Blockchain Executive Co-Founder and Executive Board MemberEarly adopters and developers of Blockchain technology hail it as the next big revolution in the way we handle transactions. If you want to get ahead of the curve and learn more about HIT Blockchain implementation, contact us.
BitJob Brings Blockchain to the Student Workforce Using Smart Contracts.It’s always interesting to shine a spotlight on startups that are doing something extraordinary to disrupt business as usual. Today’s post draws your attention to one such Startup Review: BitJob. At its heart, BitJob is a special kind of social network. BitJob is an important innovation for students, designed to help them earn money while they gain valuable work experience that will prove useful when they look for a permanent job.BitJob Brings Blockchain Technology to the Student WorkforceBitJob takes the idea behind the popular freelancer job boards — where job seekers bid on jobs — and focuses them toward micro-gigs. To do this, BitJob uses Blockchain technology to form a platform where employers and students collaborate to the advantage of both in Peer to Peer (P2P) networking. We think of it as concentrating the freelance workforce on “no job too small” platforms.How do student workers get paid?BitJob has two ways for employers to pay their student workers. They can use traditional, centralized payment methods, otherwise known as government legal tender. Or they can use cryptocurrency (think bitcoin), which is a decentralized payment platform (not government issued legal tender). BitJob’s cryptocurrency will be called : STU , The official STU crowdsale will begin on September 12th, while early birds can start contribute to this project at the exclusive pre-sale event, starting August 2nd. (Contact the team for more details).How do BitJob’s team are going to attract students to Join the platform?BitJob’s foundation is launching an affiliate marketing plan for spreading the word around the world, In order to reach as many students as possible, The team has came up with a wonderful reward program that will provide their partners with referee rewards and future dividends of every student they will bring into the platform, This way more & more Unions and councils can assist in bitJob’s vision of a global Students employment platform.How do employers and employees agree on the terms of the arrangement?No lawyers for these engagements. BitJob uses Smart Contracts for the work. Smart Contracts are a creature of Blockchain technology and, in this instance, supported by Ethereum Blockchain’s smart contract functionality.Smart Contracts are agreements created by a computer platform. The terms of the Smart Contract memorialize the negotiations between the buyers and sellers but instead of reducing those particulars to a traditional writing, encodes the terms, “written” as it were in lines of code.The contracts reside in the Blockchain network which preserves and distributes the information. The parties to the contracts remain anonymous. There is no legal system nor any enforcement entity needed. The contracts are “traceable, transparent, and irreversible”, according to Investopedia.com.BitJob PartnersSome solid companies have joined in partnership with this innovative platform. They include the Dutch Government’s Blockchain Projects, The Netherland’s Government, Blockchain Association of Canada (BAC), QBRICS, Blockchain Education Network, Cambridge Blockchain, Infolab, University of Florida Gator Bitcoin Club, and Blockchain Healthcare Review, just to name a few.From the Perspective of the Healthcare IndustryHow can the healthcare industry piggyback on this peer-to-peer model? Antiquated best describes our medical records process today. Many of the larger hospitals have graduated to electronic health records but individual doctors, especially in rural areas, have not converted. Their medical records are still filled by paper which makes it very hard to search.What we need is a way to connect the health records of our personal physicians to the health records in the hospital and to our lab results, and so on. Even the information currently stored on computers is not connected to other computers that have additional health information. Added to that, the individual servers that hold the medical information are easy for hackers to break.Blockchain technology holds out a potential solution to these connectivity issues. Just suppose, the modern medical record system encrypted an individual’s medical records and stored them on a peer-to-peer network. In much the same way that Blockchain currently stores financial information, or the way BitJob stores potential jobs, Blockchain technology can also store medical records.Once an individual designates a hospital or physician who then can access the system, all those disparate pieces of medical information come together. Such a system saves on paperwork and repetitive manual data input. Entering information only needs to happen one time because it is then shared among all people who have access to the medical records. And the individual controls how much information from his medical records he wants to give each medical provider.The U. S. Department of Health and Human Services is so interested in applying this technology to health care that it is reaching out to Blockchain technology experts to explain how it would work in a healthcare setting. In addition, MIT researchers created a prototype where they entered patient data such as prescriptions, medical history, and so on into a Blockchain platform. Then, they experimented to see if specific physicians could access the data. It worked well so now the prototype will expand to hospital networks to see how well it works in that setting.If you want to learn more about Blockchain in healthcare and its implications, read the marketplace.org article entitled “Using bitcoin’s technology to wrangle widespread medical records” which was an inspiration for this post.To talk more about how blockchain can impact your business, please contact us. We look forward to helping you understand Blockchain technology.————————————————————-For More details about bitJob – Please visit their site at: www.bitJob.ioContact : Dror Medalion, CEO   |   Email: Dror@bitJob.io
Moscow Blockchain and Bitcoin Conference.Recently, Russia has made technology news headlines, so Moscow’s Blockchain Conference, which kicked off November 10, fell in perfect time. Drawing crypto experts and leading industry professionals from all over, the second Moscow conference held this year was at times, “overcrowded beyond capacity” according to one reporter in attendance. Dozens of technology based representatives flocked to what has been hailed as “one of the biggest industry events in Eastern Europe”. Other news reported the Russia Bitcoin and Blockchain conference climate as “favorable” and several sources noted the impressive line up of speakers and registrants, leading to a heavy turnout despite cloudy weather.Among those expected, Fintech sector, with IBM, QIWI, Microsoft and Sberbank, were on the list. The conference presenters covered such topics as crypto regulations, financial tools, assets, industry challenges and various current projects. This conference held particular interest in part due to Russia’s questionably shaky stance on the issues surrounding digital currency and relevant technologies. Russia, and Moscow in particular, seemingly has created the location as a recognized space among bitcoin and blockchain world leaders, standing with other front-liners heading the industry’s future efforts.The conference, which had several renowned speakers over its course, opened November 10th with Tone Vays, a well-known blockchain proponent off of Wall Street. Bitfury’s product director was also among the opening acts, delving into the public and private relationship correlation. Overall, the event received positive, albeit scarce, feedback and contributors can expect a likely continuation of Russian influence in what’s to come. This year’s conferences lend to the establishment of Russia’s credibility within the sector and opens the door to furthering widespread participation in this highly charged area of technology based careers and services.Event details:  TrusTech – The Event Dedicated to Trust Based Technologies
Healthureum Aims to Cut Healthcare Costs with Smart Contracts.Healthureum’s aims include these:To use the Ethereum blockchain and smart contracts to increase the interoperability and efficiency of healthcare services. To incorporate a token-based payment system, which will also be used to reward referrals and second opinions. To give patients ownership of and access to their medical data. To secure patient data cryptographically. To bring “S3” (standardization, scalability, and social responsibility) to healthcare services.Simplifying paymentThe most distinctive feature of Healthureum’s plan is the integration of payment tokens and healthcare information in the same system. WELL also uses tokens for payment between healthcare providers, but the token system is its primary focus.Healthureum aims at a strong set of healthcare information features as well as a payment system in a single blockchain. It aims at providing a “complete supporting ecosystem” for providers, not just a method of small-scale payments. A major aim of the token system is to facilitate cross-border services by making payment direct, avoiding international processing fees and currency conversions.The token is called the Healthureum, abbreviated HHEM. The HHEM will be the exclusive means of payment within the network. A Token Generation Event (TGE) ran in December 2017 to seed the system. It excluded a number of countries, among them the United States, Japan, and China.Making health data available and secureParticipating patients will have their personal, medical, and emergency data all stored in encrypted form on a single platform. Large data files, such as high-resolution images, would make the blockchain unmanageably large, so they will be stored elsewhere, with access through encrypted links.The system uses permission layers to control access, so that participants can read only the information that they’re authorized for. It promises instant access, so that the information is available in emergencies. Specialists will be allowed to see a subset of the patient’s data in order to provide a second opinion.Naturally, patients want to know that the people treating them and getting referrals are qualified. This can be an issue if they have a medical emergency in an unfamiliar place. Healthureum states that it will confirm that all providers in its network are legally qualified. The patient will be able to see a referred doctor’s credentials through the blockchain.Medical researchSome features of Healthureum aim at facilitating medical research. Patients who aren’t actively participating in medical trials can contribute their anonymized medical data. When they do this, they’re granting permission only for research purposes. Fraud in medical trials is a concern, since there can be financial incentives to make a treatment appear more successful than it was. Since the blockchain is safe against tampering, it guards against falsification of data.Future plansWhere is Healthureum going from here? In 2018, it plans to work with two pilot hospitals to implement and test its standardized data framework. It will test the alpha and beta versions of its data systematization application and gather data and credentials for doctors in the test program.After making any necessary fixes to the code and confirming regulatory compliance, the program will expand to five hospitals, adding the initial implementation of referrals and consultation. In 2019 it plans to add philanthropic activities and research programs.The biggest challenge which any healthcare blockchain faces is reaching a critical mass of adoption. To be useful to patients, it has to give them access to a large number of facilities and doctors. Healthureum is staking its hopes on the combination of flexible, secure information and a payment system in the same blockchain. If enough facilities adopt it, it could be a success.If you’re looking to learn more about blockchain developments for healthcare, contact us to become part of the conversation.
Hyperledger Pushes Forward Advancements in Healthcare.Hyperledger is an open source collaboration involving blockchain developers and big businesses. Hosted by The Linux Foundation, this growing community is pushing the boundaries of blockchain development with a wide range of projects. As you’ve no doubt gathered, blockchain apps are transforming the way in which we deal with data across a wide range of business sectors and the area of healthcare will no doubt benefit greatly from the current developments in this area.Why blockchain applications are a step forward for healthcare data managementThe move from traditional distributed database systems to blockchain distributed ledger systems will have far reaching effects that will benefit patients and medical professionals alike.DecentralizationWhen a user accesses a blockchain ledger, there is no obvious clue that the data is not centrally located. Blockchain gives the illusion of a centralized system, but in reality, the data is distributed across many different locations. This allows for greater collaboration, and all data is synchronized immediately. So a doctor, staff in a hospital, and the patient can all update the data held, yet no one individual can claim ownership of the overall system, be this the hospital or a third party intermediary. Therefore, there is no ultimate reliance on one single system. When all data is located in one place, a failure of that system can be catastrophic, especially in the healthcare business when there are literally lives at stake.A clear audit trail for accountabilityWhen using blockchain technology, an audit trail is created and cannot be manipulated. This makes it highly reliable. Additionally, a block can only be altered by the owner of that block, and so it is easy to find out with whom particular data originated, and who has changed it. Data can be validated, and so can be reused as a verified reliable source.Data is very secure and so privacy is assuredMedical records are highly sensitive. When a doctor records data regarding the condition of a patient, it is expected that the data is entirely confidential. While measures are always taken to protect such sensitive information, blockchain adds a very high level of security into the equation. All data is encrypted, and can only be decrypted when a user holds the private key to do so.The application of blockchain ledger technology within the industryIt’s not just the storage of patient records that can benefit from these new technologies. Blockchain developers for healthcare are working on many different aspects of the business to implement these technologies across a broad range of areas. For instance, insurance claim processing and research sectors. Insurance claims will be easier to audit, data will be more easily accessible by involved parties and fraud detection will be improved. Claims will therefore go through faster which of course will be of benefit to those who have put in a claim. With a higher level of fraud detection, the number of fraudulent claims will be reduced, and so policy prices could well fall. Data gathering for research will also improve, giving greater opportunities for study and advancement.
VitalHub – blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider for mental health.Toronto, Ontario-based VitalHub is a blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider. Primarily serving mental health and long-term care communities, VitalHub’s software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform is designed to interconnect existing healthcare systems and data repositories through secure interoperability solutions. In 2017, VitalHub acquired EHR-provider HI Next (owner of TREAT), and healthcare platform-provider B Sharp. Together these acquisitions significantly expanded VitalHub’s offering and customer base. On January 11th, 2018, the company announced that it was officially entering the blockchain-based healthcare technology marketplace with plans to focus on blockchain-powered solutions that bring greater interoperability to the healthcare ecosystem.TechnologyVitalHub maintains that the rapidly growing blockchain-based IT solution marketplace presents a unique opportunity for properly positioned healthcare solution providers. As blockchain-powered platforms begin to reshape the healthcare IT landscape in 2018, VitalHub argues that it has four complementary strengths that position it for success in the blockchain-based healthcare solution marketplace: extensive in-house expertise; a management team seasoned in scaling global healthcare businesses; a large pre-existing customer base; and an IT team highly experienced in building innovative healthcare applications. As VitalHub enters the blockchain-based solution marketplace, it is positioning itself as a “Blockchain as a Service (BaaS)” provider addressing the challenge of interoperability “across the continuum of care.”Partnerships and acquisitionsVitalHub plans to seek partnerships with “global consulting groups” to help spread blockchain-based solutions throughout the global healthcare sector. In addition to these strategic partnerships, VitalHub aims to significantly accelerate its growth through mergers and acquisitions, a process that is already “successfully underway.” On March 24, 2017, VitalHub announced its intention to acquire two healthcare IT companies: HI Next and B Sharp Technologies. On October 5th, 2017, VitalHub further announced that it had finalized the B Sharp acquisition; and on December 22nd, 2017, VitalHub announced a “definitive agreement” to acquire HI Next.HI NextHI Next is the owner of TREAT, a fully hosted, web-based EHR and healthcare coordination platform used by more than 80 healthcare providers in North America. The TREAT integrated solution includes “over 100 clinical assessment tools” spanning a wide range of sectors including primary care, mental and behavioral health, and community care.B Sharp TechnologiesToronto-based B Sharp Technologies, founded in 1998, primarily provides EHR, clinical documentation and case management solutions for health, community care and social services organizations. Their solutions specifically address mental health, cardiology, specialty care, “complex continuing care,” long term care and pharmacy. In addition to their solutions, B Sharp provides business consulting and custom development services. B Sharp has more than 40 customers across Canada.TeamThe VitalHub executive team includes President and CEO Dan Matlow, who formerly held the same executive leadership position at Medworxx Solution Inc., a patient-throughput management solution provider co-founded by VitalHub’s VP of Mobile Technology, Andre Vandenberk. VitalHub’s CFO and Executive VP Brian Goffenberg, also from Medworxx, previously held financial management positions at Philips Lifeline, DWL Inc. and Delrina Corp. Peter Catford, HI Next Principal, is joining VitalHub as Chief Strategist.CompanyVitalHub, publicly traded as VHI on the TSX Venture Exchange, first established itself as a technology platform for developing mobile health (mHealth) solutions. The company maintains that their “platform provides the control, security, privacy and consistency essential in the healthcare industry.” With applications already ranging from clinical care to medical research, the mHealth platform provider is now expanding into blockchain-based solutions. According to the VitalHub team, a lack of interoperability among healthcare stakeholders has been stifling progress across the entire healthcare ecosystem. In response, VitalHub plans to develop and sell blockchain-powered interoperability solutions. VitalHub’s long-term strategic mission is to secure a global leadership position among blockchain-based healthcare solution providers. They aim to grow rapidly through mergers and acquistions, while selling innovative blockchain-based healthcare solutions to their existing customer base.To learn more about blockchain-based healthcare initiatives, startups, POCs and ICOs, contact us.
Supply Chain and Blockchain: The Future of Pharmacy.The interest in Blockchain and distributed ledger technology (DLT)has exploded in recent years with a large focus on the financial industry. Meanwhile, medical and pharmaceutical companies around the world are looking to DLT as a means of solving, securing, and streamlining their businesses. While there are many applications for DLT within the medical industry, one area where the technology excels is within supply chains. With sales ranging from US$163 billion to $217 billion per year, according to industry estimates, counterfeit pharmaceuticals are the most lucrative sector of the global trade in illegally copied goods. Fraudulent drugs harm or kill millions around the world and inflict serious damage on the brand names and bottom lines of major pharmaceutical manufacturers.A blockchain based system could excel in the instance of protecting consumers against counterfeit pharmaceuticals by encoding a log that would detail each stop within the supply chain. In this instance, consumers would be able to check a digital archive in order to ensure the legitimacy of their medication. The distributed nature of the technology ensures that all actors within the pipeline are not making dubious changes to the log. The Drug Quality and Security Act (DSCSA) is a regulation that requires an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace prescription drugs distributed in the United States. This law was originally passed in 2013 but won’t take full effect until 2023. Other countries are implementing similar programs. All manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers of prescription drugs in the U.S. market are required to comply.Blockchain’s immutability and provenance capability provide the basis for tractability of drugs from manufacture to end consumer, identifying where the supply chain breaks down. With the DSCSA regulations looming companies like MediLedger Project and SimplyVital are leading the pack with their healthcare oriented blockchain technologies. MediLedger is a collaboration between Chronicled and The LinkLab, bringing together both pharmaceutical supply chain and blockchain technologies. Their intention is to advance the dialogue of a blockchain utility to enhance pharma companies’ ability to manage their supply chains.SimplyVital has developed two products for the healthcare industry, both of which address different aspects; ConnectingCare and Health Nexus. ConnectingCare is designed for healthcare providers, such as a hospital. The technology enables customers to streamline data to save time and money. According to Lucas Hendren (Simply Vital’s CTO),“It uses care coordination and financial forecasting to help providers in bundled payments get insight into what happens to patients when they leave the hospital. It is a strategic early use case for blockchain in healthcare because it uses blockchain as an immutable audit trail.” ConnectingCare has already hit with its minimal viable product.Health Nexus which is another blockchain protocol crafted by Simply Vital is assisting the medical industry and consumer in storing, distributing, and securing medical data. Not only that, but Health Nexus will allow individuals to sell their data to interested 3rd parties through a secure pipeline and marketplace. Blockchain protocols like Health Nexus are likely to play a large in medical research. These protocols will also tighten consumer feedback loops and potentially save lives.Blockchain has already made an impact in the medical industry, and it’s only looking to gain speed from here. Healthcare Rallies for Blockchain, a study from IBM, found that 56% of surveyed healthcare executives had solid plans to implement a commercial blockchain solution by 2020. As the abilities of machine learning and artificial intelligence further leak into the medical industry, the need for a blockchain solution will increase exponentially.
Akiri leveraging blockchain to create trust for sharing healthcare data.San Francisco-based Akiri is a healthcare startup that leverages the blockchain to create a cloud-based, invitation-only network of trust for sharing healthcare data. Akiri recently received a $10 million investment from Health2047, which is backed by the American Medical Association (AMA). Akiri’s network, branded Akiri Switch, is their proposed solution to the medical and financial problems presently mounting in the healthcare sector due to healthcare data that remains “stuck in silos.”Akiri SwitchAkiri Switch is a cloud-based network of trust for sharing healthcare data. The Akiri team strongly emphasizes that Akiri Switch is not a health information exchange (HIE); nor an extract-transform-load (ETL) system; nor an electronic health record (EHR). Rather, Akiri Switch is a “software-defined network (SDN) and secure routing protocol” for transmitting health, wellness and medical data. Akiri Switch never stores healthcare information, but merely transmits it from one trusted subscriber to another, using blockchain technology for secure transmission. The Akiri team argues that their network has built-in support for a wide range of features that are essential to a robust, efficient trust network. These features span security and compliance; identification and authentication; and analytics and application support. According to the Akiri team, the Akiri Switch network is vendor-neutral and has the flexibility to transmit healthcare data between healthcare companies with entirely disparate database systems or “silos.”To illustrate the scope of their solution, the Akiri team maintains that their trust network offers something for all of the key participants in the modern healthcare ecosystem: patients will have greater peace of mind knowing their healthcare data is transmitted securely through a network of trusted partners; physicians will achieve greater access to secure, trusted healthcare data; providers will benefit from a greatly simplified and streamlined IT infrastructure; payers will enjoy reduced IT development costs; pharmaceutical companies will find it easier to comply with regulatory controls; and developers will have the opportunity to leverage Akiri’s open development platform to build transformative healthcare solutions.Akiri Switch is available by invitation as a subscriber-based service. Akiri Switch’s first subscriber is the AMA, the largest physician association in the U.S. with over 200,000 members. CEO of the AMA Dr. James L. Madera maintains that the present data liquidity problem, which Akiri Switch aims to help resolve, has been “one of the biggest barriers to improving the patient-physician relationship.” In addition to its first subscriber (the AMA), Akiri has also attracted its first partner-collaborator: Celgene, a leading biopharmaceutical company largely focused on cancer treatments.TeamThe Akiri team includes talent previously from GE Healthcare, Stanford, Apple, Cisco, and other leading healthcare and IT organizations. CEO Adriaan Ligtenberg, PhD, also serves on the advisory board for Health2047. His career has encompassed IT, healthcare, and investment, often in conjunction, as he worked at Bell Labs, taught at Princeton University and founded several successful Silicon Valley startups. COO Daphne Li, MBA, is also the Business Acceleration Director at Health2047, and previously held prominent positions at Apple and ADP after receiving her MBA in Economics from Stanford. The six-person team also includes a former director of Stanford Health Care, a former President of Engineering at GE Healthcare, and a former Software Development Senior Director at the Cisco DNA Center.Funding and missionOn January 3rd, Akiri announced a $10 million Series A investment from Health2047, which in turn received its founding investment from the AMA. Formerly Health2047 SwitchCo, Akiri is “the first spin out of Health2047.” Based in Silicon Valley, Health2047 describes itself as an “innovation enterprise.” With the help of the AMA, Health2047’s stated mission is to create systemic solutions to longstanding healthcare problems in order to bring about secure healthcare data liquidity; chronic care-focused healthcare models; “radical productivity” throughout the healthcare ecosystem; and value-based healthcare transactions.For more information on healthcare startups leveraging the power of the blockchain, contact us.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
CoverUS helps pay for your health insurance by using blockchain technology to securely broker your health data.CoverUS (pronounced “cover us”) is a blockchain-based, pre-launch healthcare startup that plans to reward its members with cryptocurrency in exchange for the right to broker their healthcare data. The startup won the Blockchain for Social Impact Hackathon in the Financial Inclusion category in November, and was featured in a FastCompany article earlier this month. Although no date is set for their ICO, CoverUS plans to hold a crowd sale of their utility token in 2018.The CoverUS missionCofounder and CEO Christopher Sealey argues that there are two problems in healthcare that CoverUS is directly addressing: one moral and one practical. The moral problem is that patients “should own their own data,” rather than be forced to sit back helplessly as companies buy and sell it. The practical problem is that a patient’s EHR does not tell the whole story of their health status, which requires the patient’s input. CEO Sealey believes that CoverUS’s solution can help solve both of these problems, while significantly reducing the patient’s healthcare costs in the process.The CoverUS appAt the center of the CoverUS strategy is a subscription-based mobile app. New users simply download and interact with the app, which stores their health data on their smartphone and serves as their digital wallet.The 21st Century Cures ActTo provide patients with quick access to their EHRs through the CoverUS mobile app, the company is taking advantage of a particular law within the federal 21st Century Cures Act, which mandates that as of January 1st, 2018, electronic healthcare systems in the U.S. must provide intuitive, open APIs that allow patients to easily access their EHRs.The blockchain: balancing privacy and sharingAccording to the CoverUS team, storing patient health data on the blockchain is necessary for two reasons: to keep the patient in the center of the decision-making surrounding third-party access to their data, and to achieve a balance between data-privacy and data-sharing.CoverCoinEssentially serving as a health data broker, CoverUS rewards patient-subscribers that allow the company to share their health data. The rewards come in the form of the company’s B2C digital currency: CoverCoin. CoverUS maintains that managing your CoverCoin account will be as simple as managing a frequent flyer rewards account. The app will prominently display the patient-subscriber’s total CoverCoin in their digital wallet, along with a list of recent activities that serve as credits and debits to their account. The mobile app prototype that the CoverUS team uses as an example shows a patient with a credit of “+75” for sharing their health data via a “Family Membership Survey” and a debit of “-120” for using their CoverCoin to pay for “Gym Membership Dues.” Two prominent buttons (Spend and Earn) lead the user-patient into the two complementary sides of the app.Tokens for healthcareAccording to CoverUS team, in order to incentivize healthy living, CoverCoin can only be redeemed for health- expenses. Cofounder Andrew Hoppin argues that if the company were to pay patients in cash, and they were to “spend that money on candy and cigarettes,” it would defeat the “virtuous cycle” of healthy living that CoverUS aims to reinforce.The CoverCoin wallet versus an HSAPatients can use the CoverCoin in their digital wallets to pay for many of the same health- expenses that health savings accounts (HSAs) provide for. However, the CoverUS team argues that their digital wallet is more flexible than a health savings account (HSA). Patients can redeem their tokens for a wider range of health- services and activities, including rides to a doctor or dentist appointment; childcare during a hospital stay; and gym memberships.Community sharingThere is also a community dimension to the CoverUS rewards program. By joining CoverUS, patients will also join the CoverUS subscriber community, and will learn about the health goals and financial struggles of other community members. If they wish, patients can transfer some of their rewards to other community members. They can also help other patients further their health- goals in non-financial ways and earn further CoverUS rewards in the process.Initial coin offeringAlthough CoverUS has not yet set a date for their ICO, cofounder and CEO Sealey told FastCompany that the startup plans to raise funds for their launch through a crowd sale of the company’s B2B utility token in 2018.For more information on healthcare startups utilizing the blockchain, contact us.
Curisium Raises Millions for Blockchain-based Healthcare Contract Platform.A new approach to outcomes-based healthcare contractsAt the core of the Curisium offering is an end-to-end solution centered around patient-level data and focused on value-based care.From patient populations to individual patientsWhile other outcomes-based healthcare contract platforms only address patient population data, Curisium addresses individual patient data. The company argues that their move to more granular, patient-level data gives their platform superior flexibility. When patient population data is needed, it can be easily aggregated from the patient-level data.From event data to patient-state dataThe Curisium team also maintains that their approach departs from another common tenant of legacy platforms: the focus on event-based data. According to Curisium, the focus among legacy systems on healthcare events generates sparse datasets that lead to relatively unreliable, opaque automated contracts. By contrast, Curisium’s health state-based approach leads to reliable, rich datasets well-suited for automated contracts and new insights.The issue of trustThe blockchain-based Curisium platform addresses the issue of trust directly. Outcomes-based healthcare data is generally locked away in separate silos owned by separate payers, providers and life sciences organizations. Unsurprisingly, previous outcomes-based contract platforms have struggled with the delicate task of convincing the various data-silo owners to trust eachother enough to share and aggregate their highly sensitive and heavily regulated data. However, according to Curisium, their platform provides “cryptographic guarantees” that reassure payers, providers and life science organizations that their shared data will remain secure. Furthermore, Curisium’s blockchain-based platform inherently provides an immutable record of all transactions, creating a built-in audit trail that facilitates verification and dispute resolution.Payment logisticsAccording to the Curisium team, legacy systems have had difficulty efficiently processing outcomes-based contracts. However, the Curisium platform has payment processing built in at a foundational level, leading to inherently efficient and affordable payment automation.The teamThe Curisium team is led by co-founders Peter Kim, CEO, and Francis Lam, CTO, both formerly of Aetion, a provider of evidential data supporting value-based healthcare solutions.Kim is the former VP of Engineering at Aetion, where he led the engineering and product teams to build their leading analytics platform running on “real-world evidence (RWE).” As co-founder of Curisium, Kim saw an opportunity to address the “costly logistics, lack of trust, and difficulty verifying patient-level outcomes” faced by healthcare and life sciences organizations limited by legacy payment platforms.Lam was VP of Data Science at Aetion, where he “pioneered the use of patient states” to greatly increase platform efficiency.FundingFive firms are contributing to Curisium’s $3.5M seed investment round: New Enterprise Associates, Shuttle Fund, Flare Capital Partners, Green Bay Ventures and Sanofi Ventures. Two investors will join the Curisium’s Board of Directors: Mohamad Makhzoumi of New Enterprise Associates, and Bill Geary of Flare Capital. In Curisium’s press release, Geary argues that Curisium “has the potential to rapidly accelerate the breadth and depth of innovative contracting arrangements” by virtue of its patient-level outcome verification and automated-payment capabilities.For more information on healthcare startups leveraging the blockchain, contact us.
IncentHealth Leverages Chat Bots and Ethereum Blockchain to Incentivize Healthy Habits for the Underserved.Blockchain Startup Review: IncentHealthAs their name suggests, IncentHealth is a healthcare startup that aims to create incentives for healthy living. In an effort to help end healthcare inequality, the company will focus its blockchain-based platform and cyptocurrency based incentives on helping underserved groups reach critical health milestones. Their pilot project is a smoking cessation app and program that relies on a collaborative effort between patients, their support networks and their doctors.Platform and programAlthough the healthcare startup has not shared detailed specifics on their Ethereum-based blockchain platform, they do emphasize that the smart-contract powered platform will draw upon “lessons learned from clinical trials” on the efficacy of health incentives. The backbone of the smoking cessation program is a series of milestones, corresponding to health goals, that the patient must meet on their way to the larger goal of successful quitting smoking. Upon achieving each health-goal milestone, the IncentHealth program rewards the patient with a specific quantity of digital currency. The program will make use of predictive analytics to gauge when to make changes to the incentives awarded.IncentHealth digital assistantOne of the tools at the center of IncentHealth’s pilot program is a chat bot that keeps in close touch with the patient throughout their struggle to quit smoking. The IncentHealth chat bot is programmed to reach out regularly to the patient, inviting them to update their progress through quick surveys. It also arranges for them to talk to a member of the patient’s “care team” as needed. In the company’s chat bot demo, the IncentHealth chat bot reaches out to the patient after a stressful day at work. The chat bot asks the patient to rate their level of craving (for a cigarette) that day on a scale of 1 to 10. When the patient answers “9”, a more in-depth conversation ensues. When the chat bot learns that the patient has had a cigarette that day, the chat bot asks the patient to identify which, if any, of the most common triggers (peer pressure, stress at work, or withdrawal symptoms) led the patient to smoke. Upon learning that the trigger was work stress, the chat bot shares a link to a resource “about getting to a smoke free environment” to help the patient push through their stumbling block.User personasIncentHealth has made their exploratory user profiles, a common stage in the modern design process, public. Of their five user profiles, three are patients, one is a doctor and one is a health innovation director. The patients and doctors, such as “female smoker [who] desires a better way to quit” and “physician [who] wants to explore new smoking cessation models” play complementary roles in the IncentHealth smoking cessation program. When the smoker visits their doctor looking for help in their struggle to quit smoking, the doctor recommends that they try IncentHealth’s pilot program. When the patient accepts, the doctor logs into IncentHealth, chooses a form of payment (e.g. “CareGiver/ins support donate incentive program”), initiates the program and sends the patient a link to get started.Health directors, on the other hand, follow another process. The company’s director persona, a “health innovation director passionate about new incentive programs,” is looking for an affordable, innovative smoking cessation program to implement in her organization. She has chosen IncentHealth’s pilot program. After logging into the dashboard at IncentHealth.io, she reviews the worklists and performance reports associated with her doctors’ current smoking-cessation patients. She then exports the statistics, along with a summary of patient funding, to present at her next board meeting.Team and futureIncentHealth’s small team of five includes co-founder Daniel Schott, MBA, who CoinDesk featured in a recent article on U.S. blockchain-based healthcare startups, such as Gem Health and IncentHealth, looking outside the United States as they explore projects and partners. Schott explained that IncentHealth is finding the current U.S. health industry excessively restrictive and resistant to change. Consequently, IncentHealth is “looking to Canada” as a more welcome environment to engage in initial partnerships and prototype development.To learn more about healthcare startups leveraging blockchain technology, contact us.
Universal Health Coin –  anonymous, token-based healthcare finance system.Augusta, Georgia-based Universal Health Coin (UHC) is a pre-launch startup building a blockchain-powered utility designed to provide a fair-payment platform for healthcare services. The AI-enhanced system will have UHC members fill their digital UHC Wallets once a month with cryptocurrency that will in turn pay their future healthcare costs. The UHC team argues that their system will cut healthcare costs for members by as much as 55%. Prior to their ICO in March, they are offering pre-purchases of UHC at a discount.+The missionUHC argues that there are two primary problems that drive up the cost of healthcare to new heights every year. First, there is an over-abundance of bureaucratic, administrative intermediaries standing in between the patient and the provider. In fact, UHC claims that 40% of healthcare costs in the U.S. are due to a combination of redundancies and bureaucratic/administrative record-keeping. Second, there is little to no free market for healthcare services, which leads to inflated healthcare costs that have reached an average of more than $10,000 per person in the U.S. in recent years.UHC maintains that their platform is a solution to the dual-problem of beauracratic inefficiency and healthcare-cost inflation. By creating a direct connection between patient and provider, the company aims to eliminate the costs associated with third-party intermediaries. Further, the team argues that their distributed, decentralized, blockchain-based payment system will help lead to a freer healthcare market that will curb inflationary costs.The processEach UHC member pays a monthly contribution toward their healthcare costs. The system converts their contribution into Universal Health Coin; stores the transaction as a block; encrypts the member’s identity; and sends the block to the UHC network for validation. Once validated, the block becomes an immutable record in the blockchain and the contribution appears in the member’s UHC Wallet. The wallet’s value is tied to the NEO token’s price.Upon visiting a health provider, the provider uses the UHC card or app to confirm the member’s capacity to pay. After providing the healthcare service to the patient, the provider updates the UHC block with information and notes on the patient’s visit. The system then encrypts the patient’s data and transmits it to the UHC network, which validates the transaction and adds it to the blockchain. Finally, the UHC network releases the member’s cash payment to the provider’s payment system.Provider adoptionThe success of UHC rests largely on the adoption of their payment utility by providers. The network of providers using the UHC card/app and accepting UHC payments will need to grow to the point that it represents a significant percentage of the healthcare provider ecosystem as a whole. Otherwise, patients will suffer from too few options to choose from and will likely phase out usage of the UHC utility.TeamChairman, CEO and co-founder Courtney P. Jones was also the co-founder of FindWhat, one of the early adopters of the PPC search model later popularized by Google. Courtney P. Jones argues that just as the Internet served as a platform for entirely new business models, such as PPC search, so will the blockchain.President, COO and co-founder Dr. Gordon Jones has two decades of experience working in healthcare cost and information management, and has spearheaded several healthcare finance apps.The two co-founders are joined by four others to round out the six-person UHC team. The greater group includes six advisors, three “expert mentors,” and three consultants.Token saleUHC is currently offering $5M of UHC pre-purchases to future UHC members. For the first $1M sold, they are offering a discount of 80 percent. The discount then drops through a series of tiers as more tokens are sold. The company allows pre-payments through a variety of popular cryptocurrencies: Neo, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Dash and Litecoin. The official token sale is set to take place on March 1st, 2018.To learn more about blockchain-powered healthcare startups, contact us.
HealthHeart Leadership, Formerly of Epic, Brings Blockchain To the EHR.Of all the industries that have taken large hits to their public reputation recently, blockchain and healthcare are two of the most prominent. New breaches and hacks seem to be announced almost weekly, leaving users and patients with little faith in their provider’s competency and anxiety over potential identity theft issues. HealthHeart seeks to allay those fears by bringing both HIPAA compliant electronic records and blockchain security to the table at one time.A Perfect Match?Founded by Mark Roudnitsky, formerly of Epic, a company familiar to anyone working in the EHR space, HealthHeart’s leadership team seems tailor-made for marrying blockchain and patient data safely and securely. To go with his IT and software bona fides, he has assembled a core team with experience in either tech innovation or healthcare. Rather than focusing solely on the IT security part of the project, however, HealthHeart has brought in practicing physicians to advise on user experience and provide professional insight into how the final product will be used. There is no better way to fill a need than work directly with those who have it.The Nuts And BoltsHealthHeart is built on Ethereum’s stable and much-used platform. This is common of many blockchain applications, as it keeps them from having to reinvent the wheel to get started. Each patient is given a unique indicator that is part of their Ethereum address. This indicator not only serves to identify the patient to the system but restrict access to approved parties for approved information. While the nuts and bolts of the HealthHeart software are proprietary, this is an elegant solution HIPAA’s mandate to provide the minimum amount of information necessary for treatment.On the user side of things, the HealthHeart platform appears fairly intuitive to any practitioner familiar with EHR software as it exists currently. There is support for both clinic laptops as well as mobile support that will work well with today’s increasingly connected and on-the-go patients. While all that is available to the public currently are mock-ups, the system is easily consistent with current technology and design trends.The BreakdownProsHealthHeart attempts to fill a vital need. Both providers and patients are ready for more effective medical security. In the wake of Bitcoin’s soaring prices leading up to the now aborted SegWit2x hard fork, the public has never been more aware of blockchain technology, albeit primarily as an investment instrument. This public sentiment could help drive adoption. As an investment, there is still time to get in while the bonuses are good. HealthHeart’s pre-crowdsale began in October, but the crowdsale is expected to run until the end of the year.RisksWhile the HealthHeart team looks amazing, there have been several high-profile security events in blockchains based on Ethereum recently. No doubt their security personnel are closely monitoring the developments and evaluating how it would affect their products and users. Adoption may need more than public opinion. Physicians tend toward conservative views, after all, it’s their practice on the line if a new EHR system exposes their patients.  As with any ICO, there is the potential for failure to deliver, both as a product and an investment. In HeartHealth’s case, however, they have gone above and beyond when deciding who to include in the development of their system. The common red flags, such as unknown and untested individuals, sketchy addresses, or poorly rendered marketing, are all absent.Another Tool For Doctors And Blockchain ProponentsHealthHeart looks like a nicely packaged, well-planned EHR offering for medical providers. It also gives blockchain another opportunity to show the public exactly how much this still-emerging technology can do for the betterment of society.If you’re ready to learn more about the blockchain innovations that are powering the healthcare of tomorrow, contact us for the latest news, reviews, and analysis.
Linda Healthcare Infuses A.I. and Blockchain to build Crypto Health Insurance.Over the past few years, more and more people have recognized the power of the blockchain to transform industries. In the over regulated, bureaucratic healthcare market, this is especially the case. Blockchain technology and innovative companies have the ability to revolutionize this market, create tremendous value, improve patient outcomes, create new treatments and pharmaceuticals while creating incredible companies that richly reward founders and management. Linda Health is one such company that is changing the market place with the blockchain. They have created a virtual medical assistant that is changing lives.Linda has built an interactive A.I. bot that automatically interacts with patients to ail there needs, respond to questions and advise on the best forms of treatment. The bot uses the latest medical diagnostics and research to prescribe the most favorable course of action. Best of all, the virtual medical assistant integrates the individual patient medical history into its guidance to get the best outcome for that is customized to each individual.Blockchain PrivacyThe blockchain is crucial for this effort because of the need for privacy. In order for Linda to function properly, it must access private medical records. However, traditional methods of storing these online in large databases are too vulnerable to hacking.However, this problem is solved with the advent of the blockchain. Linda can place each health account on an individual point in the public ledger. It can access the records through a invulnerable key use the cryptography properties of the blockchain. The records will be 100% secure and only available to trusted, pre-verified users such as the Linda AI bot. This radically improves the security and privacy of medical advice.Smart ContractThe firm has created a special contract called the Linda Token which is used to pay for the services of this AI system. Users can acquire these tokens to pay for the service and protect themselves from inflation. As the price of the AI bot rises over time, it will remain the same for the individuals who invested early on in the process. They will not have to pay the inflated rates that insurers or private individuals eventually have to pay for this ground breaking technology. Instead, the price will be $5 in constant dollars per month which is affordable for almost anybody for their long term care.The firm is currently preparing an initial coin offering (ICO) under the symbol LNDA. They seek to raise approximately $10 million denominated in Ether. That will represent approximately 45% of the total LNDA coin base at the time of issuance. Interested persons can sign-up at the company’s site. Those investing in the ICO will get a 10% coin bonus for their efforts.TeamThe Linda team includes some of the most prominent AI and medical researchers in the country. Arturo Devesa serves as the CEO and is currently an AI researcher at Stanford. His team also includes Julian Kates-Harbeck and Sasi Madugula who are Harvard and Stanford PhD students machine learning and medicine. The team is filled out by a number of other prominent investors, researchers and entrepreneurs at top global institutions.The Linda virtual medical assistant is poised to become a true revolutionary force. Using the blockchain, this technology will help patients and doctors improve outcomes and reduce costs. It is only a matter of time and execution.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a leading hub of information  to this sector. Professionals, entrepreneurs and technologists work together over this platform to improve communication and learn more about the growth of the health care block chain. For more information, please contact us.
How Blockchain Can Empower Patients.When people become involved with healthcare systems, they often feel out of control. They feel as though the control over what happens to them is in the hands of a system that is hard to understand and navigate. They may not feel as though they can ask questions, or they may find it difficult to contact someone who can answer their questions. Sometimes people become anxious; they may avoid seeking medical care for as long as possible. The use of blockchain can empower patients, give them greater trust in their healthcare providers, and make them more active and involved consumers.Patients Can Own Their Healthcare DataUse of blockchain technology can give people greater input into, even control over, the management of their healthcare data. As part of the blockchain, patients have equal access to their records and equal knowledge about what is going on with their healthcare.The chain can be designed so that they are able to more effectively give consent to who has access to their data. Blockchain can make patients a part of the healthcare team in a way that is often difficult to put into full practice with other forms of data management.Additionally, blockchain data is more secure and accurate. There’s not a central computer that can be hacked or a single server that can go down; confidential Personal Health Information is safer and more secure.Smooth Coordination Between Healthcare TeamOne frustration that many patients experience is the feeling that communication between them is not as thorough as it should be between the different members of their healthcare team. Data can be stored in many different disparate systems. They may find that test results haven’t been communicated to their entire treatment team, or their health history is incompletely transferred, or the hospital didn’t get the list of their allergies. Patients often feel that they have to be on guard for inevitable errors.In blockchain, every member of the chain is connected and data is updated in all of the computers at once. This improved communication and record accuracy could greatly decrease common issues like medication errors. Patients are able to have greater trust in their providers when accurate and up-to-date information is available for all members of a healthcare blockchain.Ability to Make Informed Choices of ProvidersPatients who are choosing a healthcare provider could be empowered by a blockchain provider review resource. Reviews on the internet can be suspicious; it is easy for an unscrupulous business to make sure only positive reviews show in search engines or for one disgruntled patient to make a good provider look terrible. For lay people, data from official boards and accrediting sites can be difficult to access and to understand.Patients know this, and it can make the choice of provider frustrating.  The anxiety involved in choosing a provider can cause a patient to avoid making the choice (meaning they also don’t receive regular medical care) or can lead a patient to stay with a poorly matched provider, to the detriment of their health.One of the hallmarks of blockchain is that it makes it nigh-impossible to cheat. Blockchain can be used to make an unmanipulable, objective provider review resource where patients can get up-to-date data, statistics, and reviews about providers, allowing them to make empowered and effective choices in their health care.Openness About CostsThe billing systems of medical centers are one of the areas where patients most often feel disempowered. Patients often find it difficult to get complete and clear information about the financial details of their healthcare; they may even feel victimized by the arcane billing systems involved in healthcare.Blockchain could provide clarity for many of the questions patients have, could lower the costs involved in maintaining the billing center, and can give patients reassurance that the money they are sending is being applied accurately. Patients can use access to accurate, blockchain-documented information to make informed decisions about the financial aspect of their healthcare, and they could trust that the information they are using to make decisions is accurate and up to date.Patients that are empowered are more likely to be active participants in their healthcare, to have less anxiety around healthcare provider interactions, and to make better, more informed choices about their healthcare.Blockchain has the potential to give patients back the power over their healthcare.For more information about how blockchain can empower patients and improve the collaboration of healthcare, contact us.
MintHealth Launches Blockchain Powered Personalized Health Record.The MintHealth platformAccording to MintHealth, 90 percent of today’s healthcare costs address chronic health conditions, where they have focused their initial efforts. MintHealth’s platform addresses both patients that currently have chronic conditions, as well as those at risk of developing them.The personalized health recordThe MintHealth platform includes a “self-sovereign” personal health record (PHR) that patients will use to gain direct access to their healthcare data, while controlling others’ access to it. Patients can restrict or allow access by changing permissions in real time on the blockchain. This empowers patients, according to MintHealth, “to be the CEO of their own health.”Secure, free-flowing health dataMintHealth emphasizes the importance of secure, blockchain-enabled “data liquidity” in their model. According to the healthcare startup, patients’ medical data is currently locked away in institutional silos. However, with the help of the MintHealth’s PHR, patients can take control of their health records while supplying providers and other healthcare stakeholders with the information they need to make more informed healthcare decisions.Incentives: VIDA tokensJust as car insurance companies often reward drivers that engage in safe driving behavior that help the drivers avoid accidents, MintHealth’s system will have participating health insurance providers, or payers, reward patients that engage in healthy behaviors that help patients avoid developing chronic health conditions (or complications associated with chronic conditions they already have).Specifically, payers will reward patients with VIDA tokens, the MintHealth’s cryptocurrency, when they engage in particular, healthy behaviors and activities. The company refers to this process as “gamification” and hopes to make engaging in healthy activities fun for participating patients. According to MintHealth, patients can then use their VIDA tokens to pay for a variety of healthcare expenses, such as premiums and co-pays.On the other side of the equation, the incentive for participating healthcare payers is an overall reduction in healthcare claims as their customers get healthier.The MintHealth TeamMintHealth has a large team of professionals with extensive experience as both business leaders and healthcare providers. The company describes their founders as “a cross-section of healthcare ecosystem industry leaders.” The team has an emphasis at the executive level on health data management and “personalized healthcare.”CEO Dr. Samir Damani is the  founder of leading healthcare technology platform provider MD Revolution.President Dr. Vishal Verma is the CEO of Nucleus Health, a leading health data management firm.CIO Dr. Jean Balgrosky is the former CIO of two leading healthcare organizations: Scripps Health and Holy Cross Health System (later renamed Trinity Health System). She also founded Bootstrap Incubation LLC, which invested in startups in the life sciences.Larger visionThe MintHealth team hopes to address the larger issue of rapidly rising global healthcare costs and poor health outcomes, especially in the U.S. In order to reverse these negative healthcare trends, MintHealth aims to help shift the industry toward greater sustainability and value-based care. The company maintains that rewarding patients for engaging in healthy activities, while giving them control over their own health record, will help make the transition possible.As part of their mission to achieve improved patient outcomes, advocate for patient rights, and establish greater trust between all parties in the emerging healthcare ecosystem, the founders have also launched a non-profit organization: MintHealth Trust.To learn more about blockchain-powered healthcare startups making change in the healthcare industry, contact us.
HealthyTail- Improving Animal Healthcare Using Blockchain.HealthyTail is a project built around TAILS tokens. It concerns itself primarily with the pet data economy.TAILS OverviewThe idea behind HealthyTail and its TAILS tokens here are to grow the community in order to gather data about pets. Pure breeds are particularly susceptible to this problem given that inbreeding creates a buildup of harmful mutations. In other words, the same process that creates breeds that are so wildly different from each other in the first place also leads to unique medical conditions. This is exactly the issue that the TAILS coin seeks to help counter.The Problem the TAILS Seeks to SolveOne the main problems that HealthyTail and the TAILS tokens are trying to solve involve pure breed cats and dogs. There are a number of problems that these pure breeds have which are specific to the breed. The problem is that there are so many pure breeds out there these days that there’s a lack of data about what problems they might have relative to the sheer number of dogs affected.Many people are looking for more lab research and data  to genetics that can help investigate these problems. The HealthyTail team is trying to connect all interested parties together via the coin. This includes labs, the breeders themselves, vets, those who own the pure breeds as pets, those seeking to win competitions and everyone else by using the blockchain.HealthyTail also has plans on expanding to the equine industry. “HealthyTail platform is fully applicable to equines. We have already received several requests on that. We are going to get into equine genetics and health right after cats and dogs. We are considering the possibility of changing priorities if we have relevant partners and/or investors” says Natalia Nifantova, CMO of HealthyTail.How the TAILS Token WorksYou can gain TAILS tokens by entering information into the database. On the flip side, if the goal is to take information out of the database such as gaining information about an animal breed, then you would pay TAILS into the database instead. This is how the project seeks to gain stability and eventually grow. As it gains notoriety, the idea is that more and more people will be interested in drawing from the database, so the token will naturally grow.Overall AnalysisThe coin is certainly backed by a unique concept, so competition isn’t likely to impede short. Transparency is a strong suit with the project as it appears to be fairly upfront about a lot of their approaches including how they spend their money, which is nearly half on data as well as a hefty chunk on designing and registering new drugs. Eventually they want these numbers to go up so that there’s more than a quarter spent on drugs after 5 years. The goal of the project is also to have there be economic efficiency In just two years. In terms of the TAILS coin itself, the goal is to put over three-quarters into the ICO.Overall, it’s an ambitious project that seeks to draw those interested in a more risky endeavor with a lot of room to grow. Obviously, when it comes to investing, the idea is that you should mitigate risk by investing in properties of various different levels of risk, so this could be more of a stretch risk option.For more information about ICOs and blockchain, please contact us today.
The CDC Exploring Several Blockchain Proof of Concepts.The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has become increasingly involved in the pursuit of blockchain-powered healthcare solutions this year. First, they began independently exploring several blockchain-based proofs of concept (POCs) to make health data management more efficient and secure in moments of crisis, such as a pandemic. Next, they embarked on a partnership with IBM Watson Health to expand their blockchain-based POCs. Together with the FDA’s separate blockchain-based projects, which are also in conjunction with Watson Health, there is clearly a move this year toward greater federal involvement in the adoption of blockchain technology in the health sector.The CDC’s exploration of the blockchainA recent article in the MIT Technology Review explains that the CDC has been actively exploring several blockchain-based POCs this year in order to “help public health workers respond faster to a crisis,” such as a pandemic. Currently, local health workers can use the CDC’s mobile app to log patient information and work out who should receive specific medications. However, the CDC’s current application continues to encounter a stumbling block when it comes to finding an efficient way for the CDC to store personal patient information while also conforming to strict federal privacy regulations. Jim Nasr of the CDC’s Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services, where he serves as the chief software architect, sees the blockchain as a potential solution to the problem, enabling the CDC “to store and share that data much faster while complying with security and privacy laws.” Furthermore, blockchain technology is inherently built to support the peer-to-peer data model found in the public health sector.Current project statusThe CDC aims to move from the POC phase to the real-world application phase in 2018. Meanwhile, a few challenges remain before the federal institute can go live with a blockchain-powered solution. The CDC team still needs to work out who will own the computer network where the health data will live; who will have read/write permissions; and how the CDC and others will manage IDs.New partnership with IBM Watson HealthOn October 24th, IBM Watson Health announced that they had teamed up with the CDC to explore the benefits of a blockchain-powered solution for collecting, sharing and managing healthcare data. IBM Watson Health sees the CDC partnership as building upon their current collaboration with the FDA as IBM further expands their efforts to bring about greater blockchain adoption. IBM’s chief science officer, Shahram Ebadollahi, and chief health officer, Kyu Rhee, emphasized that the research partnership with the CDC will focus on the connection between the blockchain and AI. According to Ebadollahi and Rhee, the primary role of the blockchain in POCs surrounding healthcare data is enhanced security. A properly implemented blockchain-based system “offers a level of security that will reassure all the various stakeholders in healthcare,” including patients, doctors and insurers. The role of AI, on the other hand, is insight. While the blockchain will securely collect and store the data, AI will “extract insights” from it.Although the CDC and IBM have not yet released further details on their blockchain-powered POCs, they emphasized that further details will soon follow.Federal blockchain adoption and healthcare’s futurePrivate sector startups will undoubtedly play an important role in increasing adoption of blockchain technology in the healthcare space. However, public sector institutes and agencies, such as the CDC and the FDA, are clearly going to play a critical role as well. In fact, because sensitive healthcare data is often collected and governed by federal organizations, blockchain adoption in the healthcare sector may be uniquely dependent on federal adoption to succeed.For more information on important blockchain-powered POCs in both the private and public sectors, contact us.
Blockchain Startup Review: E-Nome.Australian healthcare startup E-Nome aims to give patients the power to safely and securely control their EHRs while helping fuel anonymized medical research. The company maintains that the highly secure and decentralized nature of the blockchain serves as an ideal platform for the personalized healthcare solution they envision. At the center of their strategy is a smartphone app designed to empower patients to access or share their EHRs on their own terms.A longstanding problemE-Nome emphasizes patients’ growing need to draw together their medical data and history from various sources in order to make informed decisions about their own healthcare. The company argues that in 2017, despite recent advances, our EHRs are still not in our own possession, but are broken up into many pieces scattered across any number of hospitals and doctors’ offices. This situation prevents the patient not only from viewing their own EHR, but from sharing it with healthcare providers. According to E-Nome, sharing medical data with the research community is even more difficult, given privacy and security concerns that the current system often fails to adequately address.E-Nome’s solutionThe Sydney-based startup argues that we now live in a new, more holistic era of healthcare where a complete EHR can help doctors treat “the patient, not the condition.” With this vision in mind, E-Nome’s mobile app promises to provide “your entire medical history right in your pocket.” Yet privacy and security concerns abound in such situations. Therefore, E-Nome has chosen to run its mobile app with blockchain technology, which provides the privacy and security to “make you the owner and carrier of your records.” According to E-Nome, hackers can’t hack into the central database to retrieve patients’ data because blockchain-based systems, by their very nature, have no central database to hack into. Rather, the blockchain distributes patients’ healthcare data throughout the system. Only individual patients have the key to unlock their information, or share it safely, securely and anonymously with the medical research community.How E-Nome worksAccording to the company’s 2017 white paper, the E-Nome system involves the following series of steps:Downloading the appThe patient adds the E-Nome mobile app to their smartphone.Uploading the EHRThe patient asks their doctor to upload their medical history/record to the E-Nome site according to an “approved industry standard interface” that will not disrupt the doctor’s workflow.Generating encryption keysThe patient’s smart phone produces both a public encryption key to encrypt the patient’s EHR and a private encryption key that remains in a secure keystore on the patient’s smartphone.Scanning the phoneThe public encryption key corresponds to a QR code (two-dimensional barcode) that health professionals and hospitals can scan from the patients phone. At the moment of scanning, the patient’s EHR is anonymized, encrypted and transmitted to the patient’s phone.Controlling the EHROnce the patient views and verifies their EHR data on their phone, they can choose whether or not to allow their anonymized health data, stored in the E-Nome database, to be shared with researchers. Their personally identifiable medical data, however, is not stored in the E-Nome database, but is distributed throughout the E-Nome blockchain, where only the patient (or a specific party with permissions granted by the patient) can unlock it with the private decryption key on the patient’s smartphone.Interacting with researchersMedical research organizations with subscription-based access to the E-Nome database of anonymized patient medical data can perform searches on the medical data. When their searches finds a match, medical research organizations can send an anonymous request to the corresponding patient’s phone. The message may include a request for the patient to participate in a clinical trial. The patient can view and respond to messages, and release medical data, while retaining their anonymity.PartnershipsOn October 10th, the Sydney-based startup announced a strategic alliance with the Garvan Institute of Medical Research. The stated purpose of the alliance is to help the two companies explore blockchain-based solutions for the secure storage of genomic data for medical research purposes. Nick Curtis AM, chairman and co-founder E-Nome, is the former director of the Garvan Institute.E-Nome also recently invested in partner Tyde, the only company that has been granted the right to host the Australian’s government’s My Health Record platform, which holds EHRs for more than 20% of the Australian population.The Nome tokenE-Nome plans to introduce “the Nome,” the E-Nome token that will serve to reward research institutes for mining and thus maintaining E-Nome’s private blockchain. Research institutions can then use their Nome tokens toward their purchases of data from the E-Nome portal.The company plans to take the company public in September, 2018.To learn more about healthcare startups leveraging blockchain technology, contact us.
How ScriptDrop is Using Blockchain Technology for Rx Med Adherence.ScriptDrop is a blockchain-based healthcare startup that plans to reward patients that stay on their medication with cryptocurrency tokens they can use toward their healthcare costs. Along the same lines, the company aims to solve the  problem of medications abandoned at pharmacies by delivering medications directly to patients’ doors through courier services across the U.S. ScriptDrop already has delivery services active in Chicago and New York City. To drive their expansion, the company hopes to build on their $1 million in seed funding through their token sale on November 1st.ScriptDrop is solving a two-fold problemThe ScriptDrop team maintains that there is a two-fold problem holding back certain key aspects of healthcare in the U.S. First, a quarter of patients’ prescriptions are never picked up from the pharmacy. Second, half of patients do not take their medication according to their prescribed regimen, if at all. The healthcare startup argues that when patients fail to take or stay on the medication that keeps them alive and healthy, the result is, expensive medical visits, surgeries and wasted medication. It can even be fatal. The company claims that patients’ failure to take their medication is ultimately leading to more than 100,000 deaths, as well as $300 billion in healthcare costs, each year.ScriptDrop’s solution to this two-fold problem is a prescription delivery service and a sophisticated reminder service, both of which gather patient information and reward patients for participating.Prescription delivery serviceScriptDrop’s prescription delivery service is the more developed of the company’s two solutions at this time. Already active in two major U.S. cities, ScriptDrop plans to use the more than 350 courier services available in more than 40 states to run their prescription delivery service smoothly and efficiently.Virtual assistant and reminder serviceScriptDrop’s virtual assistant, currently in Beta, is the more sophisticated of the two solutions and serves as a multi-channel reminder service to help keep participating patients on their prescribed medication regimen. ScriptDrop is tapping into a wide spectrum of platforms to reach and interact with participating patients. Reminders are sent via robo-calls, text, Slack (workplace messaging platform) and popular personal assistants and home devices such as Amazon Echo, Google Home and Microsoft Cortana. Daily reminders may include notifications sent to caregivers, and also encompass refill reminders as necessary. In addition to serving as a reminder service, the virtual assistant asks patients to confirm that they have taken their medication as prescribed.The patient can choose to take the process a step further and agree to share their adherence information with their doctors and pharmacies. For example, with the patient’s permission, ScriptDrop will notify the patient’s doctor that they are taking their medication as prescribed. Notifications can take place via fax or through the patient’s EHR, thanks to ScriptDrop’s integration with Updox.Incentives to participateIn order to encourage patients to use the ScriptDrop service, patients earn cryptocurrency tokens with each interaction with the virtual assistant. Then the patient can use the tokens they earn towards their health insurance premiums or to reduce their co-pays.The dual, blockchain-based platformScriptDrop keeps patient information in adherence profiles stored securely on a Hyperledger-based blockchain. Token transactions, on the other hand, are kept on a separate, Ethereum-based blockchain.ScriptDrop company profileFoundersFounders Nick Potts and Larry Scott worked together at CoverMyMeds, where they helped grow the pharmacy-software company, now valued at more than $1B, before leaving to found ScriptDrop.Partnerships and progressScriptDrop has secured two partnerships, UpDox and BestRx, and recently launched its prescription delivery service in Chicago and New York.FundingScriptDrop has received $1 million in seed funding from Rev1 Ventures, Jumpstart Foundry and M25 Group.ScriptDrop Token SaleScriptDrop plans to hold a token sale on November 1st. Of the 1 billion total tokens issued, the majority (51%) will go to patients; 8% will to go the ScriptDrop Team, advisors and other parties; and the remaining 41% will serve as the 410 million tokens available at seven to nine cents each to participating pharmaceutical firms during the company’s token sale. The healthcare startup plans to raise $17.5 million from its ICO.
Technology Review – Oxcyon’s CentralPoint Platform.CentralPoint’s Single Sign-On SystemOne of the greatest aspects of CentralPoint is it allows each user to sign in and control the content they create or post. Similar to a CRM program, this takes things to a new level thanks to being a blockchain network.What’s unique about this single sign-on system is it allows a “cross forest” authentication process to allow people into your network from numerous places. This includes those outside your company when you need to collaborate on healthcare projects with people from disparate channels. Thanks to CentralPoint integrating with popular software like SalesForce, there few, if any, conflicts during sign-ins.Dynamic roles can also become assigned during sign-ins, giving more customized ways to control how people work and gain access to healthcare information.Providing Personalized Digital ExperiencesHealthcare organizations that deal in specific services can gain a lot using CentralPoint since it creates a harmonious platform designed for specific tasks.Using blockchain technology, one can create a private network to work on documents, webpages, mobile content and design for separate digital experiences. This information can then be shared among staff or users easily without worrying about data thieves infiltrating the network.Gathering Data on Each UserCentralPoint gathers staff analytics to help make smart business decisions through a private network so only designated people see it. Through CentralPoint’s rich business intelligence, gamification, and reporting, you can get a clear picture without concern about who has access.Industries That Can Use CentralPointYou’re already seeing this platform being used in fields beyond healthcare, including media, manufacturing, government, and non-profit organizations. In the field of healthcare, the use of blockchain already provides a secure network to share information with patients without security fears.CentralPoint makes it all the more attractive to the healthcare field thanks to what the company deems a “scalable wheel.” It basically creates a mind map that connects to numerous sources instantly while letting allowing for expansion at will.This feature lets creates a vast digital ecosystem connecting a user to an omnichannel universe, regardless of company size.Proving Worth Before You BuyCentralPoint allows for a preview the product to show its value before buying. Through their module gallery, they can build a high fidelity prototype of a desired healthcare project first to show off it capabilities.Contact Blockchain Healthcare Review to keep reading reviews of other software and services using blockchain to change healthcare for the better.
Blockchain Expo North America – November 2017 in Santa Clara.As the world of blockchain technology grows exponentially larger, a series of blockchain conferences has emerged for people to meet and share information. This upcoming fall, the Blockchain Expo of North America will be held in Santa Clara, California. The event will be held from November 29th to 30th at the Santa Clara Convention Center near Silicon Valley. Engineers, businesses and interested individuals from the region and around the continent will come to discuss the emerging technology. One of the hot topics of the convention will be health care uses for block chain. It could be a major opportunity for new companies and organizations to be born.The event will feature over 1,500 attendees and 60 speakers doing 20 different sessions. There is an enormous amount of energy around this event and will have multiple areas of interest. Healthcare is one of the largest areas of interest as it is such a massive opportunity and industry.For example, the event organized a prime panel called “Blockchain in the healthcare system”. The two main speakers include Diego Espinoza, CEO of Health Coin and John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health.These two individuals will discuss three main areas. Firstly, they will talk about moving patient data on the block chain. The technology allows new friction free transfer of data that has so far eluded other companies and information technology. This is a huge development for software developers, payment providers, health care providers, doctors and patients. It makes the whole system more seamless which allows doctors to catch symptoms faster or make diagnoses easier.  They also no longer need to fear prescribing medication that conflicts with existing drugs or that the patient is allergic to.Next, they will discuss data sharing including patient privacy and security. This is perhaps the most important concept because blockchain technology can protect patient data and encrypt information with 100% security. It accords with the HIPAA regulation and also leaves the patient feeling safe about the transfer of their sensitive information. Government regulators have already signaled their positive feelings about this technology for that reason. It seems that the security features of the blockchain will help it gain rapid greater acceptance for this sector in the future.Finally, the panel will discuss trial visibility along with automated patient consent platforms. That technology will help scientists improve the speed and viability of drug testing. It will reduce costs and ultimately bring drugs to market quicker at lower prices. Scientists will no longer have to use cumbersome distribution models to find patients in need of their drug trials. Rather, they can use 100% secure digital distribution models to link with consumers, achieve their consent and administer the drugs in partnership with a local health care provider. The end goal is that the price of drug development will drop from hundreds of millions of dollars to perhaps tens of millions or even a few million dollars. That would radically upend the current go to market path for a new drug and cause a revolution in the industry. That could lead to many new breakthrough drugs.While the sponsors and attendees have yet to all be confirmed, the conference promises to have hundreds of individuals interested in the health care market. So more people with interest in this sector will be attending the conference than many free standing blockchain healthcare focused events.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading hub for information about the blockchain technology  to the healthcare industry. The site includes places to learn, exchange information and meet new entrants to the space. It profiles existing growing companies and breakthrough technology. For more information, please contact us.
Can Blockchain Help Alleviate Healthcare Costs for Seniors?.How can blockchain technology help allay the financial fears of seniors?Approaching retirement is often regarded as a happy time of life, looking ahead to when you can reap the rewards of all the hard work you’ve put in during the past 40+ years. But, a survey by PwC suggests it isn’t so positive for everyone. Some 50% of baby boomers – or those over the age of 50 – have just $100,000, or less, in their pension. That’s not enough to sustain an enjoyable lifestyle for long and is a sign of underinvestment, or a possible lack of interest in their pension over the years.With so many having so little saved for retirement, it’s easy to understand that as that time of their life comes ever closer, they’re worried about many aspects of their future. Financial worries, affording to cope with the unexpected and the rising cost of healthcare, all feature among seniors’ biggest financial worries. But, can the emergence of blockchain into the healthcare sector, help ease some of those concerns?Can Blockchain address the cost of healthcareBlockchain technology, simply put, is a digital way to monitor all costs and processes associated with any given transaction or project. Its use in healthcare creates a completely transparent log of every single action, function, cost and outcome, associated with whichever hospital, provider or insurance company that uses it.By having a digital log of everything associated with a doctor, hospital, pharmacy and patient, it should become easier to predict future healthcare trends, outcomes and costs. And, by understanding exactly what costs are likely for a healthcare provider to insurers, it should result in having fairer insurance premiums for each client, based on their most likely medical needs.In some cases, of course, this won’t mean lower premiums for customers. Nor will it always mean every healthcare provider will get it right, 100% of the time. However, it should have the effect of helping all healthcare sector businesses and those paying for health insurance, understand exactly what money is going where, when and why.There’s No Way to Plan for the UnexpectedUnfortunately, there’s no real way to plan for the unexpected. That’s a worry for seniors approaching retirement and for the healthcare sector.The most sensible way to calm those worries – for retirees and healthcare business – is to put more money away for the unexpected, or to ensure there’s a reasonable savings pot, just in case. However, if the worst happens and that savings pot is used, what then?Blockchain should be able to help the healthcare sector make plans to re-build it. But, many retirees don’t have the same luxury. The best answer, is to begin financial retirement planning as early as possible. Or, if you’re only a few years away from retirement, to take some financial advice, as to how you can maximize the growth potential of any pension savings you do have.Being prepared is the best way to cope with the unexpected. That’s why Blockchain can work for healthcare and hopefully, help ensure provision and insurance costs are fair. Sometimes that will mean lower prices, sometimes not.For the most part, though, it should help keep costs and processes transparent so reassure everyone that no-one is being overcharged and that the right healthcare will be administered when it’s needed.About the author:
Robomed – Blockchain powered medical care using smart contracts.Blockchain has become one of the most important technologies in the world for more secure communication, and the healthcare field continues to benefit. You’re seeing more and more companies delving into blockchain technology to offer better healthcare services for patients.A standout is Robomed, a virtual medical network that offers smart contracts for patients and managed by a blockchain token. It’s an innovative system allowing better ways for patients to interact with medical facilities on sharing medical information and in paying bills. Patient-centered medical networks like this are still new to the marketplace. Yet, they’re about to snowball once Robomed proves its worth.Take a look at how Robomed’s process works and what it means for smart contract use in healthcare.Using the Robomed EHRAny medical facility in the Robomed network has access to their EHR platform that allows for unified storage of medical data and health management tools. It’s a unique integration not available widely yet.As a way to provide a single information space, it helps eliminate the old middleman concepts of standard medical networks. Patients and medical facilities have long had to endure too much bureaucracy, leading to delays in immediate communication. Plus, with standard networks, security still isn’t assured in a time when hacking occurs nearly every day.Through the Robomed EHR, the blockchain technology they use allows for a smart contract with patients, something possible using their own token.What Kind of Token Does Robomed Use?Known as the RBM token, this ethereum cryptocurrency gives a lot more freedom and security in transactions between patients and medical facilities. The benefit of using a smart contract like this is it gives freedom to vote on medical service value. This helps considerably in providing quality medical care to those in other countries who perhaps can’t afford certain services.Keep in mind that if you join Robomed, you have to agree to use the RBM token as payment to medical facilities in the network. They’re easy to use, though, and the pre-sale starts on October 25th. The ICO runs from November 1st through the 30th.In total, they’re releasing 1,675,000,000 RBM tokens with a final release date on November 31.All the funds received from these tokens are going to go toward developing and improving a smart ecosystem smart contract.Using the Smart Contract in the Robomed EHRThanks to blockchain technology bringing more transparency to communication and transactions, it opens a lot of new possibilities through Robomed’s EHR platform.It now offers the ability to provide a digital patient chart both parties can easily access without worry of hacking. It’s also possible to keep a transparent schedule for specialists, plus real-time monitoring of all personnel actions. Better tracking of staff salaries is possible here, proving the worth of smart contracts.Most importantly, it opens a private network for medical staff to make smart decisions without fear of data being compromised.Other Digital Uses for RobomedOnce you start using the Robomed platform, you’ll be able to use it for telemedicine technology, giving your patients more confidence in providing personal information. Analytics are available to see how effective medical facility advertising is.Additionally, they offer a mobile version of the platform, as well as one for the web. Through the mobile edition, it’s possible to provide even more convenience with telemedicine consultations. It’s also easy for patients to do scheduling without having to call in on busy phone lines. All patients can control who sees their medical information, and vice versa.As Robomed advances, we expect to see this imitated everywhere soon in the healthcare industry.Contact us at Block Chain Healthcare Review as we review more healthcare companies providing blockchain technologies for transparent smart contract use.
Can Bitcoin Be Useful For Healthcare Costs and a Health Savings Account?.It’s become quite clear that the blockchain is going to be a very useful technology in the healthcare system. Often thought of as the truly impactful aspect of the emergence of Bitcoin, the blockchain allows for simplified record-keeping, transactions, and communication – and it may well be that we’re only just scratching the surface of its utility. In healthcare and elsewhere, people have been coming up with fascinating and useful twists on the blockchain for the last few years, and there’s no indication that innovation is slowing down. The possibilities are endless.Healthcare costs and you health savings accountBut while the blockchain is undeniably useful in this industry, can the currency for which it was initially developed serve any purpose? Can Bitcoins be useful in relation to healthcare?This may sound like an odd question, given how significant healthcare costs are, and how formal the payments tend to be. At first thought, it may seem like an industry in which Bitcoin usage just isn’t necessary or practical. That said, however, we have seen the leading cryptocurrency making its way into a few industries specifically with regard to making payments safely and securely.The first example that comes to mind is PayPal, which has partnered with a popular Bitcoin exchange to allow users to sell Bitcoin and cash out to their PayPal accounts. That basically means they can finance PayPal accounts through Bitcoin, partnering two types of digital transaction that exist for purposes of safety and security. PayPal is essentially meant to be a mode of online payment for which personal information does not need to be provided in individual transactions; Bitcoin is meant to be entirely anonymous, and therefore entirely safe. The partnership essentially compounds the feelings of security that Bitcoin and PayPal users typically feel.The second example actually involves the same two services, but specifically relates to online gaming. It is perhaps no surprise to hear that online casino platforms started accepting PayPal as a deposit and withdrawal method some time ago (for the same reasons of safety and security mentioned above). Going by the first example that means that some could be using Bitcoin to funnel money into these kinds of deposits. But we’ve also begun to see some similar platforms accepting Bitcoin payments directly – as a safe, efficient, and reliable means of payment.Clearly, a pattern is beginning to emerge. While Bitcoin is also useful for a lot of more casual purchases, such as those at online retail shops, some of the biggest adoptions of its use have been in industries where financial security is paramount. This could certainly be applied to healthcare, not because anonymity is particularly important, but because payments need to be made on time, and can be steep in nature.Paying for medicine and treatments, particularly when they may not be fully covered by insurance, can be a very significant hurdle. And complications, either with payments or with procuring treatment, can be devastating. The idea of having a reliable, digital means of paying for these things, in addition to a blockchain that records the transaction indisputably, will undoubtedly appeal to many patients. For that matter, it may benefit hospitals and pharmacies as well, as it could conceivably cut down on issues in which patients or those close to them may attempt to abuse prescriptions and get more than they should.It could also become easy and normal for people with Health Savings Accounts to fund those accounts via Bitcoin. We’ve already seen articles about adding Bitcoins to retirement funds, and the higher the price of the cryptocurrency soars, the more valuable this idea becomes. Now, an HSA doesn’t work the same way, in that it’s meant to be used rather than saved. But account values do tend to roll over from one year to the next, and some may like the idea of funding these accounts with Bitcoins in the hopes that they’ll appreciate, and thus lessen the need for further payments the next year.To be clear, these practices – buying medication or funding HSA accounts via Bitcoin – are not normal or even necessarily possible yet. But the way we’ve seen Bitcoin adopted in other industries in which safety, security, and reliability are particularly important, it will be interesting to see if the cryptocurrency can take hold in healthcare.
An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to Blockchain.An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to BlockchainThe internet is an anonymous place, and that anonymity makes things like buying good or procuring services from across borders and seas quite easy. Unfortunately, the same anonymity also makes it incredibly difficult to keep a record of the transaction that is not nebulous. Thanks to a new system derived from Cloud Computing, much similar to Cryptocurrencies themselves, that is set to change.This technology is called Blockchain. And it follows a pretty simple scheme to get a retrievable, non-alterable account of all your online transactions via cryptocurrencies available for record.When you transfer a sum of money via Bitcoin, Ethereum or another cryptocurrency to someone else, the transaction is recorded in a block of data. This block cannot be altered or tampered with, which is the base of the transparency of the system. The data does not use your real world identity either, if that’s what you prefer. The data is thus certain and definitive, yet respectful of privacy.This block of data is then stored in folders. Several copies of this data are stored on multiple devices, giving rise to a chain-like structure if you trace the path of the information. This is what earns the system the name Blockchain. The chain helps ensure there are multiple copies of the data available, so that even if one device is inaccessible at any point of time, the data is still available. The data is reliable since the same can be verified across the links in the chain.What’s more, the makers of the system have even figured a way to reward members of the chain monetarily. This sum can be treated as compensation for the CPU resources and electric power consumed in the process.Blockchains have a whole other dimension where we may soon see them contribute significantly. One such unlikely sphere is voting. As vital as it is to any true democracy, voting and counting fraud is a reality that many budding as well as established democracies struggle with. Blockchain based online voting systems may bring a welcome shift in trends towards a more transparent and reliable system of representation, eliminating counterfeit votes as well as ballot stuffing.The system can also benefit systems where booking services from the government may be involved, since it can eliminate bookies and fake representations as well as sale of anything from train tickets to contracts in the black market.Corporates like Walmart too are waking up to the benefits this system could bring to them. Blockchain has the potential to be the inventory management tool the world has been lacking all this while, bringing us an easy way to order and sell raw material as well as finished product with every minute movement on the market and its trends. It could be the next market revolution after share trading! Isn’t that something?Author Bio: Stacy Miller has been blogging ever since she was in high school. Her love for technology and disdain for generic Hollywood movies has only grown over the years. You can find more of her writing on Techiespad.com
2017 Distributed: Health – Nashville, TN.Distributed: Health Conference OverviewThe conference targets the healthcare, law and IT services industries. This year’s program provides conference sessions and three key learning opportunities for registrants: a two unit continuing legal education component, a 24-hour hack-a-thon for developers and a code camp. The CLE is open to attorneys and non-attorneys. Its track requires advance registration and costs $199. The hack-a-thon competition’s objective is to build and demonstrate an original blockchain-powered application. The competition offers prizes of more than $10,000. The code camp provides hands-on workshops for all levels of blockchain developers. The camp costs $50 and meets at The Bell Tower from 9:30 am to 5 pm, September 25th. The conference sessions cover four learning tracks:Blockchain for Business, CLE, Internet of Things, Payments.The two-day conference costs $649.Sessions and SpeakersThe conference kicks off with a keynote address from Change Healthcare CEO Neil de Crescenzo on his organization and its objectives. The networking lunch also features a keynote address. Dr. Harold Paz, Executive Vice President & Chief Medical Officer for Aetna will discuss his company’s Blockchain usage. The day closes with a keynote speech from John Sotos, Chief Medical Officer for Intel Health & Life Sciences.The conference features multiple panel sessions. These include:“A New Infrastructure for Healthcare,” combines presentations and discussion from: John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Bryan Smith, Chief Scientist of PokitDok; Miriam Paramore, President of OptimizeRx. “The Future of Payment Models” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development at Cerner Corporation; John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Francois de Brantes, Vice President & Director of the Altarum Center for Payment Innovation and Aaron Symanski, CTO of Change Healthcare. “Blockchain IoT Use Cases: Scalability & Security” with Siva Kannan, VP of Engineering for Gem; Carlos Elena-Lenz, Director of Intelligent Products & Solutions for Cognizant; Frank Ricotta, CEO for BurstIQ. “Introduction to Blockchain: Defining Use Cases” with Andrew Beal, Senior Manager of EY; Jennifer Georgino, Director of Ecosystem Development for Patientory; Brian Behlendorf, Executive Director for The Hyperledger Project; David Houlding, Director of Healthcare Privacy and Security for Intel Health and Life Sciences. “Blockchain & Revenue Cycle Management” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development for Cerner Corporation; Pearson Talbert, President of HealthcareTTU; Kyle Culver, Solution Architect for Humana; Scott Law, Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy, Zotec Partners; Jim Sohr, Chairman of Powered Health. “Clearing the Way for the Internet of Clinical Things” with Jason Goldwater, Senior Director of the National Quality Forum; David Metcalf, Director of the Mixed Emerging Technology Integration Lab at the UCF Institute for Simulation and Training; Kristen Johns, Counsel for Waller; Susan Ramonat, CEO of Spiritus Partners. “Laying a Foundation for Success: State Initiatives in Blockchain” with John Wagster, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Giles Ward, Executive Director for Hashed Health; Kenneth Bradberry, President of BlockChange. “Blockchain: The Individual & the Employer” with Frank Coliano, Operating Partner with The Riverside Company; Micah Winkelspecht, Founder and CEO of Gem; Peter Fuchs, Corporate Strategy for Mercer.WorkshopsThe first afternoon also offers hands-on learning opportunities. A workshop, “Blockchain Use Case Workshop with Optum,” hosted by Mike Jacobs, a Distinguished Engineer with Optum, introduces participants to Blockchain case studies. A live demonstration session, “Demos: Blockchain in Action,” presents technologies from Hashed Health, IBM, PokitDok, and the State of Illinois.CLE Session HighlightsA CLE registrants session, “Healthcare Regulation Meets Blockchain,” examines how Blockchain affects HIPAA compliance, legislative trends and regulatory issues. Panelists include: Caitlin Moon, COO and CDO for Legal Alignment; Larry Bridgesmith, CEO/Founder of Legal Alignment, Adel Elmissiry, CTO for Utilize Health, Jodi Daniel, Partner at Crowell & Moring.A second CLE registrants session, “The Legal Challenges of Token Offerings,” looks at the legal ramifications of token fundraising including securities laws, border limitations and consumer protections. Panelists include: Les Wilkinson, Chief Development Officer for Hashed Health; Gray Sasser, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Jason Epstein, Partner and Co-leader of Technology and Procurement Group for Nelson Mullins; Alan Cohn, Counselor and Strategic Advisor for Steptoe & Johnson LLP.See the agenda for Distributed: Health
Umbrella Coin – Automating Insurance Payouts with Smart Contracts.The market for alternative coins has been growing at a dizzying rate. Many ICOs (Initial Coin Offerings) now raise tens of millions or even hundreds of millions of dollar equivalent value in their tokens. Healthcare is one area where blockchain technology is seeing major ICO growth.Umbrella Coin has produced a coin called UMC which is built on the Ethereum protocol. It’s goal is to become a major healthcare company based on the block chain technology rather than traditional financial structures.Umbrella Coin can reduce costUmbrella Coin has several revolutionary innovations that no health care company on the market can match. The first innovation is that the claims process is governed by the universe of other Umbrella Coin owners. They vote through the Ethereum protocol on whether any claim should be paid out or not. They are interested in a sound system that is fair and can grow, not necessarily in the most profitable system.This radically changes the traditional model of claims payments. Under the current methodology, health insurance companies have an extremely detailed checklist of approved treatments and pharmaceuticals for each diagnoses. They have a bureaucratic structure with lawyers, claims management professionals and very few doctors to overseas the claims process. The people making the decisions are not doing it in the interest of patients but rather for the bottom line.The second huge innovation is the cost structure. Under the legacy bloated system results in many good claims that are rejected and many wasted costs. Additionally, the health insurance companies spend millions in sales and marketing to acquire new customers. This ultimately needs to be made up by raising premiums for current customers. Overall, prices continue to dramatically rise in this system.Under the Umbrella Coin system, this all changes. Since there is no costly claims process, no bureaucracy, no million dollar marketing campaign and no expensive overhead, claims can be far more generous for less costly. They can dramatically reduce costs and be more efficient.StructureThe overall structure is a little complex but makes the entire system extremely coherent. A new client first takes some of the Umbrella Coin from their wallet and devotes it to a “Float” pool. That allows the client to be covered under the health plan. After a small lock-out period, there is a maturation period under which they are covered by the plan. As time passes and no claims are required, some of the funds may be withdrawn with a small penalty. At the end of a contract period, there is no more penalty at all.If a claim is made during the maturation period, the community decides on the validity of the claim. If it is approved, the Coins are withdrawn from the Float and distributed to the individual. If the claim is rejected, no Coins are disbursed.TeamUmbrella Coin also has the team and background to execute on the vision they have outlined. They have a number of software developers from the largest software and insurance companies in the world. They have decades of experience in software development and education from some of the finest engineering and computer science programs. Additionally, Umbrella Coin has already started to build out its sales and marketing team to promote the use of the product.Blockchain Health Care Review is a leading hub of information about companies, technology and innovations around health care tech using the blockchain. Many people, companies and institutions have already formed tight partnerships through the site. For more information, please contact us.
MedCredits and Hippocrates: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using Blockchain.Blockchain technology seeks to connect patients with doctors on a decentralized platform to help reduce healthcare costs associated with office visits and middlemen. Several tech startups are racing to cross the finish line! One such, MedCredits, claims they’re the first blockchain powered platform that connects providers to patients worldwide on a decentralized network. Many in the industry anxiously await the announcement or launch date for token sale, and MedX token price. To receive the blue ribbon that label’s them as the first company to successfully integrate blockchain technology and smart contracts into current healthcare designs would give them a proverbial leg up on the competition.MedCredits: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using BlockchainSimilar to other telemedicine startups, MedCredits desires to improve healthcare access and reduce rising healthcare costs. Developers believe trying to create a decentralized electronic medical record (EMR) is too difficult of a task to tackle all at one time, and rather approach implementation organically, growing the platform overtime by targeting medical specialities and slowly releasing software updates.Instead of dismantling an entire electronic system and re-training workers, MedCredit team members are approaching blockchain-based telemedicine through integrating technology into readily accessible medical specialities, like Dermatology, to serve as a foundation for later application into other fields.Dermatology is one of several specialities transforming the healthcare market by approaching it as a borderless, decentralized network. Diagnoses are largely based upon subjective descriptions and examination of skin, which Dermatologists agree can safely be accomplished with photographs and clear patient descriptions via smartphones.How It WorksMedCredits, built from the OpenBazzar code-based system, is working to seamlessly integrate Hippocrates, a user-friendly app connecting Dermatologists with their patients, on the MedCreditsplatform. OpenBazzar is a decentralized peer-to-peer sharing platform for goods and information. Hippocrates is a user-friendly app on the MedCredits platform, where providers and patients meet to discuss their skin concerns.Global Network ~ Borderless access to Dermatologists! MedCredits‘ goal is to globalize medicine!  Instant Connection ~ Hippocrates is a user-friendly application, prompting patients through each step to submit cases, receive diagnosis and hear treatment recommendations with the touch of a button.  Payment ~ Patients pay using MEDX, or ERC20 tokens, secured on Ethereum blockchain and regulated by self-executing smart contracts to track the automated transactions. Diagnosis ~ After successful transaction, patients receive diagnosis and recommendations from licensed medical professionals without ever having to leave their environment!AdvantagesMedCredits opens up hospital doors globally, providing borderless patient access to physicians, assisting to remove geographical barriers to clinics, and improving health outcomes worldwide. Overtime, MedCredits hopes to extend its reach to other medical specialities, such as Cardiology and Neurology, to interconnect EMR with other departments and hopefully global systems.Allows for physicians to access demographics who have limited mobility or means to attend regular appointments. Records are available through secured access, giving patients the keys for their health! Patients are given access to healthcare professionals for diagnosis, referral or treatment anywhere, at anytime!DisadvantagesResearch reveals that people spend over 90% of their free time on applications, though this doesn’t necessarily mean we should encourage it. Incentivizing patients through leaving star ratings, may impact an insurance company’s decision to provide coverage or include clinics in their network. This has possible ramifications on who is able to receive treatments locally, or be made to rely on smart technologies alone.People as LinksIt’s undeniable that aspects of telemedicine and blockchain technology help to streamline healthcare processes. Studies may show that more people are comfortable interacting through a screen. Admittedly, it’s difficult to untangle persons with technology, as one will often times support the other. Companies like MedCredits make telemedicine possible, and with some more research, can hopefully help us drive our health forward into the future!Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
Doc.ai – blockchain-enabled, AI-powered biology and health platform.A worldwide shortage of health professionalsThe Palo Alto-based, biology and health-focused AI company sees their technology as filling a much-needed gap in the present healthcare system. They point out that the World Health Organization has estimated that we are suffering from a worldwide shortage of seven millions healthcare professionals. Doctors and nurses are overworked, and relieving their burden with millions of additional healthcare professionals will inevitably require extensive, costly training over many years. According to doc.ai, however, AI can help relieve their burden and improve healthcare outcomes immediately.Information gatheringIn a recent article entitled “The Robo-Doctor will See You Now,” PC Magazine reviewed the doc.ai app after the company’s CTO provided a demo of the first stage of the patient’s interactive experience with the AI. The demo began with the AI, through the CTO’s mobile phone, asking the CTO to take a picture of himself with his phone (i.e. a “selfie”) in order for the AI to guess his gender, age, weight, height and BMI, all from his headshot. According to PC Magazine, other than the app’s guess of the CTO’s age, which was off by only a “couple years,” its analysis “was spot on.”In the next stage, the “robo-doctor” asks the patient to take a picture of their medicine cabinet and blood results. Later, the AI guides the patient through the process of importing subsets of their medical records (including “a full sequence genome” if the patient has one available) from various sources. As the patient’s personalized health data collection grows from all of their medical sources, the AI soon learns more about their health profile than any individual medical source could know. According to doc.ai, this puts their app in a unique position to provide highly informed medical insights.The AI-powered medical conversationOnce the aggregation of medical data is complete, the highly personalized, blockchain-enabled AI platform is able to respond to patients’ questions about their health 24/7 through the mobile app. According to the doc.ai team, the AI-supported dialogue is not merely a user-friendly interface for retrieving data already present in one’s medical record. Rather, it is a generator of new information and insight. In the company’s press release, doc.ai provides a number of examples of complex, personalized questions that the company claims their AI can handle, such as “What should be my optimal Ferritin value based on my iron storage deficiency?”The first “beta customer”Doc.ai is not only designing their AI to interact with patients, but health professionals. The company is currently testing their first module, Robo-Hematology, with Deloitte Life Sciences and Healthcare, their “first beta customer.” Co-founder and CEO of doc.ai, Walter De Brouwer envisions health professionals and institutions having a direct dialogue with lab tests themselves “by leveraging advanced artificial intelligence, medical data forensics, and the decentralized blockchain.”In addition to Robo-Hematology, within the next twelve months doc.ai plans to release two additional blockchain-enabled, AI-powered natural language dialog modules for use by leading medical organizations addressing specific areas of healthcare and life sciences: Robo-Anatomic and Robo-Genomics.Neuron: the doc.ai blockchain tokenIn order to reward usage and run their blockchain-enabled AI technology, doc.ai is following the Ethereum token standard to generate their tokens, which they are calling “Neurons” (NRNs). Doc.ai is creating a marketplace for SAFTs (Simple Agreements for Future Tokens) on September 7th, followed by a token sale on September 28th. Upon launch, SAFTs will convert to NRNs. To tie the size of their token pool to their subject matter, doc.ai plans to make the total number of NRNs 86 billion, roughly equal to the human brain’s total neuron count.Contact us to learn more. Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with leading DLT research in an effort to bring the most current information to members of the community.
The Illinois Blockchain Initiative and Hashed Health.On November 30th, 2016, the state of Illinois announced the launch of the Illinois Blockchain Initiative, founded for the purpose of exploring the application of blockchain technology to key government data-handling processes. One of the most promising developments of the initiative since its launch is its recent partnership with healthcare technology innovation consortium Hashed Health. The initial phase of the partnership will involve a pilot program aimed at improving the medical license credentialing process in Illinois through the use of blockchain and distributed ledger technology.The Illinois Blockchain InitiativeEver since its launch last November, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative has been active on a number of fronts. Prior to its partnership with Hashed Health in August, perhaps the initiative’s most significant move has been to clarify state law governing cryptocurrency. On June 13th, the initiative announced new rules governing the use of cryptocurrency among individuals and organizations operating in Illinois. According to their official statement, given that cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum are not issued by recognized financial institutions they do not meet the definition of legal tender found in the Illinois’ Transmitters of Money Act (TOMA). Nonetheless, cryptocurrencies still contribute to net worth as they can be exchanged for legal tender. Businesses in Illinois facilitating the exchange are therefore subject to TOMA regulations and will require a TOMA license. Furthermore, the cryptocurrency owned by cryptocurrency companies will be considered a “permissible investment.”Hashed HealthLocated in Nashville, Tennessee, Hashed Health is a consortium of healthcare organizations largely devoted to spreading blockchain-based innovation throughout the healthcare sector. The consortium offers its member organizations blockchain technology support in product development, regulatory assistance and several other critical areas. Gaining access to the wealth of health expertise and technology guidance that Hashed Health provides, member organizations can launch new health-focused and blockchain-based programs and technologies more efficiently, effectively and affordably.The partnershipOn August 8th, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative announced a pilot program in partnership with Hashed Health to explore the application of blockchain and distributed ledger technology to the process of issuing and tracking state medical licenses. At a technical level, the project will make full use of smart contracts (small, dedicated programs that store and retrieve specific units of information on-demand) to update medical credentials held in the shared, distributed, blockchain-based system.According to Bryan Schneider, Secretary of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR), the pilot program they are launching in partnership with Hashed Health will initially enhance the state’s efforts to make medical licenses for Illinois health professionals more portable. In the long term, the program could potentially serve as a leading example of how all states could more effectively verify and otherwise credential medical licenses. Both providers and payers alike may one day have a national, shared, secure and efficient repository of medical license data, ultimately improving provider listings while streamlining the medical claims process.Jennifer O’Rourke, Illinois Blockchain Initiative’s Blockchain Business Liason, foresees “sharing our learnings” not only with medical licensing boards in other states, but with all parties with an interest in the project’s goals. CEO of Hashed Health, John Bass, sees the broader goal of the project as a bold proof-of-concept for the value of blockchain that will contribute to a “digital transformation” not only for the state of Illinois, but for the public and private sectors as a whole. Ultimately, they are trying to usher in an era of greater “transparency and trust” between individual citizens and their government.A promising futureOverall, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative is a bold attempt to bring blockchain technology to one of the most important bodies of data handled by state government: medical licenses. By choosing to partner with healthcare technology innovation consortium Hashed Health they are drawing upon a wealth of blockchain and healthcare expertise that should increase the odds that their pilot program will succeed. If it does, we should expect that the program will serve as a model for other states and organizations that are eager to take advantage of the promise of blockchain to help data flow securely and efficiently throughout the greater healthcare system.To learn more about the Illinois Blockchain Initiative and other developments in blockchain, contact us.
iSolve – Innovation for the Drug Supply Chain.Blockchain technology began its innovative life in the cryptocurrency market segment. It moved quickly to disrupt other market segments  — representing many processes — who find it relevant to their security needs. And what is in greater need of chain of custody security than the drug supply chain? iSolve shows an innovative way forward for the drug supply chain using blockchain technology.End-to-end Drug Supply Chain Solution Using BlockchainInformation about the drug supply chain posts securely to the blockchain. Blockchain technology provides a way to trace drug movement from one trusted drug supply chain partner to another. The use of blockchain technology in the drug supply chain:makes auditing easier and more accurate; makes the drug supply chain transparent for Biopharma companies who want to see the distribution patterns of their medical products; applies in the $800 billion global pharma market; integrates existing systems and processes; and prevents counterfeit medications from entering the supply chain.Advanced Digital Ledger Technology (ADLT)iSolve developed ADLT to provide security in the drug supply chain. It accomplishes this by preventing counterfeit drugs from entering the supply but beyond that it provides:prompt secure communications between drug supply chain partners,  improved inventory control and management, improved medication recall procedures and processes, and global regulatory compliance.ADLT works toward structural soundness of the drug supply chain with respect to the needs of Pharma, vendors in the supply chain — and, of course, patients.BlockRXThis is iSolve’s platform (combining Blockchain technology and iSolve’s ADLT), designed to improve patient outcomes by integrating the work of life science researchers, BioPharma companies, medical device makers, medical equipment retailers, and health care providers. The BlockRX Ecosystem for BioPharma creates new revenue streams and manages costs. It changes the way BioPharma companies, health care providers and patients interact with each other. BlockRx also provides secure access to data.The BlockRX digital tokens that support life sciences go on sale September 21st.The Smart MarketplaceBioPharma Tech Transfer Offices and service providers can enter The Smart Marketplace to take advantage of the Smart IP, Smart Services, and Smart Investment components. They can search intellectual property (IP) postings from around the world to help them build their own supply channels or locate new technologies that help them develop their drug enterprises.BioPharma companies can connect with investors that are a good match for them at their particular stage of development.Tech Transfer Offices, service providers and investors who take advantage of the Smart Marketplace gain exposure to more clients, identify needs that exist in the marketplace and track the companies that need the type of expertise and special services that they can provide.Blockchain Project Portfolio Management (BPPM)BPPM tracks tasks/deliverables, organizes, and schedules projects that BioPharma companies enter into the Blockchain for Smart IP, Smart Investment, and Smart Services. BPPM helps identify and manage projects without burdening the BioPharma companies with more administrative tasks.BPPM automatically posts the updated plan via an email response system as work completes.Investors can see at what stage the BioPharma company project reached at any given point in time. Investors can also see the milestones completed as required for initial or additional funding stages.All activities of Tech Transfer Offices, Service Providers, Investors and BioPharma companies post to the Blockchain in a portfolio. iSolve analyses and posts metrics about the activities which helps organizations when they search for possible partners.To learn more about iSolve’s solutions to fundamentally change drug development by interconnecting systems that do not communicate well with each other and to establish data provenance, read the blockrx.com white paper.
Dentacoin is Using Blockchain to Shift the Focus of Dentistry from Treatment to Prevention.The rapid development of blockchain technology is poised to disrupt just about every corner modern healthcare. Predictive health and PHI security use cases are utilizing distributed ledger technology to store vital patient information in a secure, traceable and transferable ways. However, innovators and entrepreneurs alike are also starting to test applications in specific provider specialties. One such area is dental care, lead by the visionary DentaCoin team.Dentistry Cryptocurrency and BlockchainA visit to the dentist can be a hit or miss experience depending on the effort put into personal care. From a young age, people tend to start visiting the dentist at regular intervals to stay on top of issues that would otherwise compound in severity rather quickly if left untreated or unattended. Although dental diagnostic technology and everyday tools of the trade have evolved significantly, advancements in informatics infrastructure on the backend and progress to stem trends such as gum disease haven’t had as much luck in advancing. Cryptocurrency in particular is a notable, low hanging fruit type opportunity for blockchain to get a foothold in the dentistry without really rewriting its IT infrastructure by way of enabling innovative payment methods. Still, dentistry is one of the lowest risk areas of health care since it is rarely a life threatening situation, albeit commonplace procedures that are more severe often require surgical precision, hence the requirement of medical school for dentists. The other side of the argument is that teeth can be kept healthy and strong with basic, habitual preventative care. This is a far cry from the amount of work it takes for the rest of the human body to stay healthy and happy. How does blockchain fit into all this? It’s an excellent incentivization mechanism that can be used to increase proper hygiene and thus prevent common, yet destructive chronic conditions from wreaking havoc.Enter DentaCoin. The outfit has created a trusted blockchain platform that will support a community network for dentists and patients alike, which is scheduled to launch in the fall of 2017. This community allows for constant feedback, education and a strong community between dentists and patients. The platform with is designed to facilitate with a low barrier for entry an information and improve oral care. It’s architected as a “decentralized, highly secure database of all patient health records” where “health data will be highly protected, updatable and accessible exclusively by patients or by dentists, upon a given permission”.Additionally, DentaCoin has created a payment system with its new coin DCN token, which integrates cryptocurrency into the dentistry patient care model for the first time. Using DCN, patients can pay dentists directly for care, pay for medical insurance, pay for preventative care and purchase oral care products. Dentists benefit from participation immensely as well. Integrating with DCN will allow dentists and their practices to purchase standard industry equipment at a lower than average cost through the Dentacoin Trading platform.DentaCoin also is positioned to democratize the dentistry industry by providing patient mediated data functionality for patients to take control of who sees their records as well as the opportunity to be rewarded with DCN if they allow their medical data (once scrubbed of identity) to contribute to the trend analysis tools offered to participating dentists. This type of secure, immutable data collectively overtime evolves into a highly targeted and intuitive population health asset, which in turn cuts down on diagnostics.Even with all of these benefits, some dentists and patients might wonder why to make the switch to a new, untested system. DentaCoin provides an innovative and unexpectedly lucrative answer to this question. The company will provide a profit sharing opportunity to all of the holders of the DCN coin. In any financial year, the DentaCoin Foundation will use 50% of profits gained and invest them back into the community. That will increase the price of the coin and help any current holders of the currency. It ensures that value will rise over time as long as more people enter the network.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
BurstIQ – Blockchain Platform for Securing, Analyzing and Monetizing all of your PHI.With the integration of blockchain technology into healthcare well underway, B2C blockchain based startups are focusing intently on developing tools that facilitate ownership and provenance of personal health information (PHI). In this space, prevention is the name of the game, and there is no better way to prevent illness than precisely knowing what makes you, well, you.Colorado based BurstIQ “has solved two fundamental challenges that have, until now, prevented blockchain from being utilized in the healthcare space: support for large volumes of data and ensuring security of the underlying data.” The ecosystem includes an intuitive and easy to understand consumer facing product called Lifegraph, where a participant can consolidate all PHI and share what you want with who you want all the while delivering personalized wellness plans. What makes BurstIQ stand out is their marketplace, where you as an individual can license, sell, loan or even donate your PHI to established research networks on the other end. This kind of dedication to active matchmaking is a key incentive for consumer participation.Monetize Health Data on the BurstIQ MarketplaceBurstIQ is personalizing the next generation of healthcare by converging multiple technological sources of your health information into one singular place: The Health Singularity. BurstIQ is the marketplace and your data is the currency. How does tech like this presumably work?BurstIQ Goals:Improve Patient Satisfaction Improve Quality of Care & Outcomes Increase Market Shares Reduce Excessive Costs Build Brands That Shake Hands Target Research to Save on Costs & TimeThe BurstIQ marketplace is where individuals and businesses or research institutes can freely collaborate, reaching agreements together with the assistance from artificial intelligence. Engagements in the marketplace are supported by BurtIQ’s Healthwallet, which powers PHI data governance, compliance, security and permission rules. Other platform services include BurstChain, which is the backbone for rights management functionalities as well as managing consent contracts to permit access to patient-sensitive information, and LifeGraph. LifeGraph is able to cross-examine and manage information from multiple sources to create a road map of your health-data throughout a lifespan.Elements of the New Health Ecosystem:A.I. systems provide more precise insights about your health habits, and which ones are positively (and negatively) impacting long-term care results. Use remote patient monitoring and targeted testing, as well as immediate access to Physicians through telehealth consults. It’s your Virtual Clinic! Consumer focused health plans act to tailor wellness needs based upon home tests made available to participants Sensitive patient information is securely stored in personalized digital HealthWallets. Through the HealthWallet, your health metrics as defined by your LifeGraph determines the care you receive. For example: Primary Care Physicians can write and approve your prescription in exchange for BiQ tokens.BurstIQ is a beacon for blockchain HIT innovation that not only supports owning your PHI, but also having the tools to learn from it, which can be tremendously helpful when deciding what you want to do with it.Unquestionably, using blockchain technology to help gather and store patient data in one place improves treatment accuracy and redundant administrative costs. What remains to be seen from B2C blockchain HIT startups is the network effect of having the security, collaboration and incentive motivation to share PHI. In practice, it can help improve the accuracy and cost of clinical research, which could trickle down to affecting drug prices. The first litmus test though for this innovation fork in healthcare’s timeline is to what degree does all this technology will make any given citizen more accountable and engaged with their data.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
2017 Blockchain Conference Washington D.C..As virtual currencies soar past expectations and reach new heights, the interest in Blockchain technology grows. The implications are huge across the board. Diverse sectors are hoping to harness Blockchain technology’s potential to replicate successes seen in the financial services arena.2ND ANNUAL BLOCKCHAIN CONFERENCE WASHINGTON D.C. 2017The Harvard Business Review explains how this potential is already being explored in healthcare as a way to process transactions efficiently and securely. Estonia’s health care system is one such case study. It adopted Blockchain technology in response to a 2007 breach that left patient data vulnerable. This aggressive and innovative response is an example of how the technology can be applied to improve processes and reduce vulnerabilities in healthcare.To help decision-makers learn more about the technology and how it can be applied, the second annual Blockchain Conference in Washington, D.C., is being held July 28, 2017. The one-day event, which takes place at George Washington University, provides an opportunity for leaders in healthcare, government, finance, tech, venture capital, and logistics to meet and discuss Blockchain/DLT technology.It’s billed as a fast-paced conference that includes top speakers and offers attendants networking time to connect with each other. Here’s a review of some of the most important agenda items taking place at the D.C. Blockchain Conference:Where we stand with Blockchain technology todayThe first panel of the day, Blockchain State of Play, looks at the current marketplace and provides an evaluation of how things have changed over the past year to understand what the landscape looks like now, where it’s come from, and where it’s likely headed next.The resurgence (and rise) of virtual currencyA keynote will explore the resurgence of virtual currencies, coins, and token-based systems. Looking at the recent booms in Bitcoin and Ethereum, in particular, this session discusses what has driven prices up and sparked a lot of interest in Blockchain technology.A look at regulations and standardsLater, experts will provide an update on how regulations are impacting digital currency. Currently, innovation and adoption of Blockchain technology are outpacing laws and regulations, but this is likely to change in the near future.An Introduction to Initial coin offerings (ICOs)Learn about this crypto-financing technique, an unregulated method of fundraising for cryptocurrency venture that side-steps traditional capital-raising processes, and what are considered to be the pros and cons of this fast-evolving process.How Blockchain can be used for goodThe second keynote looks at how Blockchain is changing global development programs and explores its potential to be useful in other capacities. Experts agree the Blockchain could ameliorate such grand problems as poverty, hunger, and corruption, but exactly how to get there is still up for debate.Blockchain beyond financial servicesLearn more about how Blockchain technology can be used in capacities other than as a digital currency, such as transparent supply chains, secure transmission of patient data, and records management.Expert predictions for the short-term futureThere have been a lot of exciting developments in Blockchain technology during the past year, but what’s next? Close out the day at the conference by hearing Blockchain experts share their predictions on what’s ahead for this game-changing technology. They will offer an outlook on what to expect from Blockchain technology by 2020.Event organizers anticipate the 2017 conference will build on the success of last year’s inaugural Blockchain Conference in Washington, which had a diverse audience and impressive line-up of speakers. This list included representatives from Microsoft,  IBM, the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer’s Research, GWU, and the Federal Trade Commission.Some of the speakers lined up for this year’s conference include:Luis Carranza, Fintech Founder and CEO Susan Poole, Blockbridge Advisory Founder Tom Plunkett, Oracle Consulting Solutions Director Brendan Blumer, Block.one CEO Jack Shaw, Blockchain Executive Co-Founder and Executive Board MemberEarly adopters and developers of Blockchain technology hail it as the next big revolution in the way we handle transactions. If you want to get ahead of the curve and learn more about HIT Blockchain implementation, contact us.
Encrypgen: The Gene-Chain Project.Security Issues Genomic DataOver the last few years, the scientific world saw an exponential growth in the type and volume of available genomic data. Genomic data refer to information with respect to an organism’s complete set of genes, or what we call genomic DNA. Technology kept up with the capture, processing, storage, and analysis of this critical information but solutions to the security and privacy of genomic databases lag far behind.Encrypgen’s Gene-Chain revolutionizes the genomic industryBy their very nature, genome sequencing contains the most sensitive data about individuals. DNA contains information on ethnic background, the propensity to develop certain medical conditions, even life expectancy and personality traits — all of which a person may want to keep confidential and out of the hands of cyber criminals.Gene-Chain stores genomic data from individual donors and researchers, which can then be used for metadata searched . This storage platform makes it easier to browse through the material and securely share scientific data. Universities and other research centers — and even corporations — buy the right to store data on Gene-Chain. Once licensed, these scientific research centers and corporations can request to see stored data other than their own. The Gene-Chain processes these data requests by ensuring the requests comply with privacy and consent laws which, in turn, makes scientific collaboration and ethics procedures easier. Gene-Chain donors can see a complete historical record of all “withdrawals” of the data they upload to the platform. In addition, donors can grant specific scientists and research projects access to their data by giving them special keys that provide secure access for a specific time period, after which they expire.What is so special about Gene-Chain?Based on blockchain technology, Encrypgen’s Gene-Chain provides a trackable and unhackable method that enables transactions involving genomic information over secure networks. People who deposit, use, or mine genomic data receive Gene-Chain coins, a valuable and exchangeable cryptocurrency. In practical terms, this means that donors can make money from those who mine their data.Encrypgen is in the midst of its first sale of 80 million Gene-Chain coins which it expects to conclude sometime in July 2017. At of this date, the company sold 55% of the Gene-Chain offering. The company will distribute wallets at the end of the current sale. In August, 2017, the DNA tokens will list on crypto-exchanges.Who is Encrypgen?Co-founder David Koepsell, JD/PHD, brings his background in law, ethics, and software, to his position as Encrypgen CEO. He leads Encrypgen’s mission to develop systems that will improve the usefulness and privacy of genetic databases and will protect database donors.The Co-founder of Encrypgen is Vanessa Gonzalez Covarrubis, PHD. She is the genomic science advisor for the team and brings more than a decade of genetic science experience to her role. She also writes extensively on genetic science for various publications. As genomic science advisor, Ms. Covarrubis researches pharmacogenomics which is the science behind the emerging field of personal medical genomics.Partners and MembersEncrypgen counts Curlew Research as an organizational partner which supports Encrypgen (and other technology partners) with life science and health innovative projects.Encrypgen is an organizational member of the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health. The company also actively seeks to create partnerships with other entities who share its interest in the security, privacy, and collaboration of genomic data for scientific and health purposes.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
Canadian Startup Peer Ledger Addressing Digital Identities with Blockchain.Peer Ledger is a Canadian blockchain software startup that specializes in identity management. Their primary current offering, Identity Bridge, links blockchain accounts to externally certified real-world identities. This real-to-digital identity mapping, according to the Peer Ledger vision, will bestow blockchain credentials with a trustworthiness that they lacked before this innovation. The company believes that trust-sensitive industries such as healthcare are an ideal fit for their solution. Peer Ledger recently teamed up with two leaders in the digital identity space to prove that it was possible to successfully map trusted, verified identities to otherwise anonymous blockchain accounts. In doing so, Peer Ledger believes they’ve helped pave the way for certain types of trust-sensitive software, such as clinical trial applications, to finally make full use of the blockchain platform.Ensuring trustworthy identities in the blockchainPeer Ledger sees itself as providing the missing piece in the project of establishing verified, trustworthy digital identities in the blockchain. Presently, applications built on the blockchain verify identities by matching pairs of private and public keys. However, because users can link any identity to their blockchain account, digital identities in the blockchain have a critical vulnerability when it comes to trust. Consequently, digital identities in the blockchain lack the reliability they need in industries such as healthcare, where a trustworthy digital identity is critical to the integrity of nearly every application. To bridge the trust gap, Peer Ledger makes use of the public key infrastructure (PKI) system to certify identities outside the blockchain before binding them to blockchain accounts. The result, according to the company, is that blockchain-based applications that take advantage of Peer Ledger’s Identity Bridge solution will now have verified, certified, trustworthy identities that users can count on in trust-sensitive industries such as healthcare.The Peer Ledger portalThe Peer Ledger portal has an interface for both admins and regular users. The admin interface primarily enables admins to issue and revoke mappings of certified digital identities to blockchain accounts. The standard user interface allows regular users to visit their security profiles and make updates to their certificate information, as well as other  fields.Recent proof-of-concept for healthcare applicationsPeer Ledger recently teamed up with digital identity standards provider SAFE-BioPharma and Synchronoss (NASDAQ:SNCR) to demonstrate through a proof-of-concept study that they could employ their solution to ensure the trustworthiness of the digital identities used in blockchain transactions. For example, clinical trials that are double-blind require known identities. However, prior to this proof-of-concept, it has been taken for granted that identities involved in blockchain transactions are anonymous. Therefore, it appeared that double-blind clinical trial transactions could not take place on the blockchain. Yet this study has shown that it’s possible to systematically link otherwise anonymous blockchain postings to proven identities, in this case SAFE-BioPharma compliant credentials. Further, the blockchain postings can remain anonymous for as long as necessary, such as for the duration of the clinical trial, before the system matches them to their verified external identities for the sake of regulatory compliance or clinical need.The future of digital identityPeer Ledger is building a new breed of identity management software designed to ensure the trustworthiness of digital identities attached to blockchain accounts. Their essential idea is to map externally certified identities to blockchain accounts whose identities would otherwise remain either anonymous or unreliable. Admins can perform the mappings, and users can update their certificates, through the Identity Bridge portal. This real-to-digital identity mapping, according to the Peer Ledger vision, will bestow blockchain credentials with a trustworthiness that they lacked up to this point. Peer Ledger teamed up with SAFE-BioPharma and Synchronoss for a proof-of-concept that successfully demonstrated that they could de-anonymize blockchain accounts to make certain trust-sensitive software, such as clinical trial applications, a viable option for blockchain-based platforms. According to the startup, not only the clinical trial space, but the trust-sensitive healthcare industry as whole, could make use of their demonstrated solution.
Nonprofit Government Blockchain Association Takes Lead in Blockchain Education.Whenever an evolutionary change is sweeping through the culture, the responsibility of good government is to ensure the evolution benefits the society as a whole. For the government to succeed in that effort, leaders of the evolution must step forward to educate lawmakers and offer their best advice.Enter Government Blockchain AssociationBlockchain technology already is well along in creating an evolutionary (some might say revolutionary) change in the global society. And a group has stepped forward to create a vehicle for blockchain leaders to provide that necessary education and advice to governments on a global scale.The nonprofit Government Blockchain Association announced its formation in April to serve as a platform for those inside and outside government who wish to ensure blockchain technology is used for the betterment of society.‘Positive Leveraging of Blockchain’GBA’s stated claim is to serve as a catalyst for creating an open and public dialogue around “creative, profitable and positive leveraging of blockchain.” As such, its membership is open to individuals and organizations who are committed to ensuring governmental regulation and integration of blockchain meets those aims.GBA seeks to provide resources for individuals or companies that are working with governments – international, national, state or local – to help them explain how this powerful technology can be used to improve citizens’ lives. The association also will conduct and promote networking, training and educational events.Beyond promoting and educating about blockchain technology and its potential uses, GBA also intends to promote open and just government that protects the freedom of all people. The association has created a five-point Ethics Statement revolving around the beliefs that, while viewpoints and perspectives may differ, governments must protect the rights of their citizens and use technology to improve their quality of life.Statement 5 states the goals clearly: “GBA will only pursue goals that serve to form a more perfect union between and among governments and the citizens they serve, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense of citizen’s rights and welfare and secure the blessings of liberty in a free society.”Blockchain Leadership on Global ScaleGerard Dache is the driving force behind the creation of the Government Blockchain Association. With more than 20 years leading military and commercial organizations, Gerard sees the potential for blockchain technology and recognizes the need to get ahead of government regulators in focusing its power for all citizens. Gerard’s role as a consultant with government contractors around the globe gives him a unique leadership position as President of GBA.Joining Gerard on the leadership team is Vice President Dan Callahan, who brings more than three decades of experience working to integrate technology into the operations of the U.S. federal government. Dan is the author of “Cracking The Code: The Professional Salesperson’s Guide to Penetrating the Intelligence Community.”Consider a MembershipAt its founding, GBA is offering free memberships, but this will change as the association grows and develops need for a budget. Members are welcome from all walks of business and government who wish to learn more and become a leader in your community or country in the coming blockchain evolution.Members will have access to resources, networking opportunities, training and more. Most importantly, members will have a voice for expressing opinions about policies, regulations and implementation of blockchain technology through governments around the world. Members will receive discounts on training events and other resources, plus access to unique opportunities.Blockchain Healthcare Review is proud to serve as a founding member of the Government Blockchain Association. If you have questions or concerns about how the implementation of blockchain technology could affect your role in the healthcare field, contact us.
Female Blockchain Entrepreneurship in Healthcare.Women Entrepreneurs Focused on Solving Healthcare with BlockchainBlockchain is a technology that is open to all. It does not discriminate based on age or gender and is built around mathematical concepts and technology. It is behind the rise of crypto-currency tokens, which are the lifeblood of monetizing blockchain innovation. The industry young, and many new companies and founders with great ideas are entering and making a large impact. For that reason, many female founders are having a big impact on the blockchain industry by founding new companies and driving new ventures.Kat Kuzmeskas – CEO, SimplyVital HealthSimplyVital Health is a company that has a large impact on the budding blockchain healthcare sector. It is focused on data portability, tracking and analysis of healthcare data. It is already making a huge impact that is easy to use and that naturally integrates with legacy systems.Kat Kuzmeskas is one of the founders of SimplyVital Health. This impressive founder has a deep background in the health industry including working at the Yale New Haven Health System and earning a Masters in Public Health. Kuzmeskas understood the issues that small health providers face and how data portability could help them save time, costs and improve patient care. She then teamed up with co-founder and CTO Lucas Hendren to create the SimplyVital Health Solution.SimplyVital Health is a giant leap forward on the ability of companies, institutions and healthcare providers to track and manage patient information with 100% security. Of course, patient data must be kept private and secure according to HIPAA regulations. Fortunately, the blockchain ledger allows for a mathematical solution that prevents fraud and allows all exchanges of information to be pre-verified.The solution tracks each step that patients go through, from the symptoms they have to the time they enter their first provider to all of the care, procedures and medications they receive. This is important for several reasons. First of all, it records the interventions in a clear and easy to use system that should indicate to other medical providers what has worked and what is not working.  That helps later diagnoses.Secondly, it ensures that the interventions were done according to a medically determined standard of care. That means that insurance companies will have no way to deny claims of unnecessary procedures or excessive medications. Providers love this because it means they get paid faster and have full verification in case of any disputes.Thirdly, it creates a way for the government or the hospital to do a quick audit of a patient or patient’s records to see that all of the proper compliance standards are being followed. Audits are much quicker and less expensive. That is better for the government and the institution itself. Plus any changes in procedure may be easily programmed into the legacy system to guide providers in the future.SimplyVital Health was also built to integrate painlessly with legacy IT systems. That means providers will not need a long training period or expensive implementation costs. As SimplyVital Health continues to add more features and functions, more and more institutions are adopting the technology.Elaine Comeau- CEO PointNurseAnother company to look out for in the female led healthcare blockchain startup community is PointNurse. It is run Elaine Comeau who herself is a registered nurse. The firm helps home nurses to log their care, hours and interventions on the blockchain. This provides tremendous convenience and security. In addition to advocating for “out-of-hospital blockchains”, PointNurse envisions a “decentralized autonomous nursing organization” or “DANO,” that will make full of use of blockchain to disrupt and transform the multi-billion dollar nurse-staffing industry. This seed stage start-up is a player to watch in the future.Chrissa McFarlane- CEO, PatientoryLastly, a discussion in women driven blockchain entrepreneurship can not be complete without mentioning the recent, and ongoing success, of Chrissa McFarlane, CEO of Patientory. With a recent issuance of their ICO, Patientory secured $7.2 million in funding by making their token (PTOY) available to the public for purchase. The platform is designed to transfer tokens—PTOY—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patient.Where to buy PTOYIf you missed the Patientory ICO, not to worry. You can still purchase tokens on exchanges such as Liqui.The Patientory platform makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology and decentralizes data so that it distributed and HIPAA compliant. Patientory also has deployed a mobile app enables users to store, view and track their healthcare data using HIPAA-compliant blockchain technology.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
BitJob Brings Blockchain to the Student Workforce Using Smart Contracts.It’s always interesting to shine a spotlight on startups that are doing something extraordinary to disrupt business as usual. Today’s post draws your attention to one such Startup Review: BitJob. At its heart, BitJob is a special kind of social network. BitJob is an important innovation for students, designed to help them earn money while they gain valuable work experience that will prove useful when they look for a permanent job.BitJob Brings Blockchain Technology to the Student WorkforceBitJob takes the idea behind the popular freelancer job boards — where job seekers bid on jobs — and focuses them toward micro-gigs. To do this, BitJob uses Blockchain technology to form a platform where employers and students collaborate to the advantage of both in Peer to Peer (P2P) networking. We think of it as concentrating the freelance workforce on “no job too small” platforms.How do student workers get paid?BitJob has two ways for employers to pay their student workers. They can use traditional, centralized payment methods, otherwise known as government legal tender. Or they can use cryptocurrency (think bitcoin), which is a decentralized payment platform (not government issued legal tender). BitJob’s cryptocurrency will be called : STU , The official STU crowdsale will begin on September 12th, while early birds can start contribute to this project at the exclusive pre-sale event, starting August 2nd. (Contact the team for more details).How do BitJob’s team are going to attract students to Join the platform?BitJob’s foundation is launching an affiliate marketing plan for spreading the word around the world, In order to reach as many students as possible, The team has came up with a wonderful reward program that will provide their partners with referee rewards and future dividends of every student they will bring into the platform, This way more & more Unions and councils can assist in bitJob’s vision of a global Students employment platform.How do employers and employees agree on the terms of the arrangement?No lawyers for these engagements. BitJob uses Smart Contracts for the work. Smart Contracts are a creature of Blockchain technology and, in this instance, supported by Ethereum Blockchain’s smart contract functionality.Smart Contracts are agreements created by a computer platform. The terms of the Smart Contract memorialize the negotiations between the buyers and sellers but instead of reducing those particulars to a traditional writing, encodes the terms, “written” as it were in lines of code.The contracts reside in the Blockchain network which preserves and distributes the information. The parties to the contracts remain anonymous. There is no legal system nor any enforcement entity needed. The contracts are “traceable, transparent, and irreversible”, according to Investopedia.com.BitJob PartnersSome solid companies have joined in partnership with this innovative platform. They include the Dutch Government’s Blockchain Projects, The Netherland’s Government, Blockchain Association of Canada (BAC), QBRICS, Blockchain Education Network, Cambridge Blockchain, Infolab, University of Florida Gator Bitcoin Club, and Blockchain Healthcare Review, just to name a few.From the Perspective of the Healthcare IndustryHow can the healthcare industry piggyback on this peer-to-peer model? Antiquated best describes our medical records process today. Many of the larger hospitals have graduated to electronic health records but individual doctors, especially in rural areas, have not converted. Their medical records are still filled by paper which makes it very hard to search.What we need is a way to connect the health records of our personal physicians to the health records in the hospital and to our lab results, and so on. Even the information currently stored on computers is not connected to other computers that have additional health information. Added to that, the individual servers that hold the medical information are easy for hackers to break.Blockchain technology holds out a potential solution to these connectivity issues. Just suppose, the modern medical record system encrypted an individual’s medical records and stored them on a peer-to-peer network. In much the same way that Blockchain currently stores financial information, or the way BitJob stores potential jobs, Blockchain technology can also store medical records.Once an individual designates a hospital or physician who then can access the system, all those disparate pieces of medical information come together. Such a system saves on paperwork and repetitive manual data input. Entering information only needs to happen one time because it is then shared among all people who have access to the medical records. And the individual controls how much information from his medical records he wants to give each medical provider.The U. S. Department of Health and Human Services is so interested in applying this technology to health care that it is reaching out to Blockchain technology experts to explain how it would work in a healthcare setting. In addition, MIT researchers created a prototype where they entered patient data such as prescriptions, medical history, and so on into a Blockchain platform. Then, they experimented to see if specific physicians could access the data. It worked well so now the prototype will expand to hospital networks to see how well it works in that setting.If you want to learn more about Blockchain in healthcare and its implications, read the marketplace.org article entitled “Using bitcoin’s technology to wrangle widespread medical records” which was an inspiration for this post.To talk more about how blockchain can impact your business, please contact us. We look forward to helping you understand Blockchain technology.————————————————————-For More details about bitJob – Please visit their site at: www.bitJob.ioContact : Dror Medalion, CEO   |   Email: Dror@bitJob.io
IEEE Pharma Supply Blockchain Forum: Improving the Pharmacy Supply Chain.When it comes to Blockchain, the big question today is how to put it to work for you. We keep our eyes peeled each year for events that will interest you in this area — and we believe this year’s Pharma Supply Block Chain Forum fits the bill. So read on for highlights from this Event review – Pharma Conference.The Pharma Supply Block Chain ForumThis event was held on June 6, 2017 at the Johns Hopkins University Montgomery County Campus in Rockville, Maryland. It was an information packed, one-day, educational program about Blockchain technology and its uses with respect to the Pharma supply chain. This was not just a one-off event. It was the first in a series of events whose goal is to promote Blockchain technology in the pharmaceutical sector.Who were the speakers?This forum was impressive for the breadth and depth of experience of its presenters. The forum included regulators, representatives from the academic world as well as industry and technology experts. Speakers included representatives from the following companies:Amgen Blockchain Healthcare Review Chain Business Insights Health Linkages IBM Life Sciences Peer Ledger PharmTech SafeBio Pharma Steptoe & Johnson, LLP IEEE Spectrum T-Systems AmericaThe Pharma Supply Block Chain Forum spread wide its audience netFrom Vice Presidents, senior directors and managers, to benefit managers and hospital staff, as well as government regulators, students and researchers  — the content added value to all attendees. The industries most affected were those in the manufacturing end of the pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences as well as wholesalers, hospitals, and technology vendors.What topics did the Forum cover? Forum presenters expressed their views on the following:Improving the drug supply chain from manufacturers to patient, including the opportunities for collaboration from IOT, AI, Blockchain, DLT’s just to name a few Increasing revenue from data in the Blockchain Digital identity concerns in the drug supply chain Working better with trusted partners Understanding what the regulators have to say about the drug supply chain Smart contracts Management and security of data Integrity of the supply chainThe keynote address, for example, asked the question whether Blockchain is the right fit for Pharma’s supply chain. Other speaker topics ranged from a food safety case study to the smart way to do smart contracts. The Digital Identity issue inherent in using Blockchain for Pharma included tips on using a double layer framework to secure both the product supply chain and with respect to patient information.Another presentation reviewed the contenders for the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (DSCSA) track and trace program, a program intended to help the pharmaceutical industry comply with the Act. DSCSA imposed new requirements on manufacturers, repackagers, drug dispensers, pharmaceutical wholesalers, and their trading partners. The new rules with respect to standards of practice and product tracing phase in over the next six years which made this a particularly appropriate topic for this Blockchain Forum.IEEE areas of pharmacy and supply chain interestSupply chain operations and IT. With respect to supply operations, the Forum aimed at those with an interest in:Distribution Management Partnership development Quality Control Compliance Finance SecurityOn the IT side, the Forum impacted those whose work touches:Big Data Data governance Cloud management Data architecture in Enterprise corporations Information security Data engineering Tech innovationsPerhaps the most impressive thing about this list is that it is not exhaustive. And, as this was only the first in a series of forum events, expectations for the entire series run high.To talk more about this topic, or anything else, please contact us. We look forward to answering all your questions about Blockchain and its impact on the Pharma supply chain.
Change Healthcare Becomes First HIT to Join Hyperledger.Change Healthcare Joins HyperledgerOn May 22nd, 2017, Change Healthcare became the first healthcare IT firm (HIT) in the U.S. to join Hyperledger, a robust, Linux-led open source blockchain developer community and consortium. With Change Healthcare’s leadership in the health sector, and Hyperledger’s leadership in the blockchain developer community, the creation and implementation of innovative blockchain-based healthcare solutions are certainly forthcoming.Change Healthcare – HIT AnalyticsChange Healthcare is a leading, independent healthcare IT analytics and solution provider. The company has the nation’s “largest financial and administrative network.” Change Healthcare’s scale and reach in the healthcare sector, which will serve to help the spread of blockchain-based solutions, are clearly borne out in the following highlights:800,000 physicians served 12 billion transactions facilitated in 2016 2,100 payers connected (nearly all public and private payers in the U.S.) 5,500 hospitals servedChange Healthcare recently merged with McKesson Corporation’s IT arm (McKesson Technology Solutions) to create “the NEW Change Healthcare.” McKesson Corporation is a leading healthcare services and IT provider, recently ranked 5th among companies in the Fortune 500.Having directed their attention to providing healthcare IT solutions, Change Healthcare saw a natural partner in Hyperledger. CTO Aaron Symanski emphasized that while blockchain, still in its nascent phase, holds genuine promise for “secure online transactions,” it now needs leaders in the health sector to support and employ the platform to build the healthcare solutions of the future. As Change Healthcare joins the Hyperledger consortium, Symanski joins their governing board. Hyperledger executive director, Brian Behlendorf, sees Change Healthcare as “a huge asset” in Hyperledger’s efforts to assemble a community to help bring “open blockchain tools and services” to industries such as healthcare.Hyperledger – Open Source Blockchain DevelopmentHyperledger, backed by the Linux Foundation, is an open-source software project, community, incubator and consortium focused on enterprise blockchain solutions. To facilitate efficient, rapid development of open blockchain technology, Hyperledger encourages participating enterprises to make use of shared “building blocks” when developing their blockchain-based frameworks and applications.Member benefitsDevelopers and maintainers are at their best when coding software solutions. However, they may feel intimidated and out of their depth with the larger organizational, infrastructural and legal ramifications and requirements they need to consider before taking their projects to market. To help members bridge the gap, Hyperledger, backed by the Linux Foundation, offers its members one of the world’s leading “brain trusts” for open-source projects and infrastructure.Members will also gain access to resources to aid their marketing and PR efforts. Hyperledger highlights projects in active, or pending, status, on its flagship site Hyperledger.org. With nearly 50,000 monthly unique visitors, the Hyperledger site is a leading gathering place for blockchain developers. Hyperledger also has a blog, as well as active mailing lists and chats, that serve as an online venue for members to showcase their work while gaining insights from the greater blockchain developer community.For those eager for face-to-face interaction, Hyperledger also welcomes project leaders to take part in Hyperledger’s conferences. These “hackfests” serve as a gathering place to meet other like-minded developers while making new headway on their projects. Hyperledger Fabric, for example, initially contributed by IBM and Digital Asset, grew out of Hyperledger’s “first hackathon.” Hyperledger’s eight “hackfests” have thus far averaged 150 conference attendees from the blockchain developer community.As of May 22nd, 2017, Hyperledger has announced eight projects, including four frameworks and four tools. Six have graduated to active status. Prominent companies contributing or sponsoring Hyperledger projects include IBM, Intel, Hitachi, Huawei and DTCC, among others.The future of open-source blockchain in healthcareWith the sheer reach and scale of the new Change Healthcare, the Hyperledger community should receive a genuine boost in its mission to bring open enterprise blockchain solutions to healthcare and other industries. With several like-minded projects and blockchain building blocks already in place, forthcoming Hyperledger projects sponsored or contributed by the new Change Healthcare should come to market at an accelerated pace.Contact us for more blockchain healthcare news and insight.
MedRec: Innovating Blockchain for Healthcare Data Management.MIT Media Lab’s MedRec is a blockchain-based healthcare data management solutionTheir central focus is on the Electronic Medical Record (EMR). MedRec aims to give patients access to, and control over, their EMR while facilitating and motivating medical research.The patient interfaceMedRec provides a user-friendly interface for patients to access their EMR. The interface includes notifications of any updates to the EMR. MedRec also enables users to decide “when, and with whom, they share their data.” Patients will have the power to use the MedRec interface to grant a guardian, family member, new doctor or any other participant the rights to view their data. Furthermore, patients may share information regarding a specific subset of their EMR (such as data relating to a specific health condition) while keeping the rest of their EMR private. MedRec gives patients a high level of granular control over their data, and can even isolate individual fields for independent sharing or restricting.MedRec as a “Database Gatekeeper”MedRec does not store any actual medical records on their blockchain network. Rather, MedRec stores “aggregate data pointers” that only reference the medical records, which remain in their existing databases. These “pointers,” or references to the actual medical data, are at the heart of MedRec’s approach and are aggregated into patient-provider relationship units. As viewership permissions for the actual medical data change, these pointers and relationships get updated, allowing or restricting access to the medical data accordingly. The entire process operates through their “Database Gatekeeper layer.” MedRec maintains that its blockchain model, centered around their “Database Gatekeeper layer,” alleviates many common concerns that would otherwise arise without it. Perhaps most importantly, it allows providers to keep their existing databases and continue to use them as they do now. This not only makes participation in the MedRec network all the easier and affordable for providers, but may facilitate HIPAA compliance.Motivating medical researchThe MedRec team maintains that the medical research that is essential for helping researchers and providers find new cures and treatments is greatly hampered by the present lack of access to sufficient medical data. Although some clinical trial and other data does “trickle through,” there is a pressing need for more data that is currently inaccessible.MedRec hopes to provide a solution to this problem by introducing a “data economy.” In return for providing the “computational resources” that support the MedRec blockchain network, medical researchers and other participants will receive “census level, anonymized metadata” that is useful, presumably, for their research. Of course, patients and providers (“the data producers”) will have a say in how much of this metadata they release to the researchers and other participants (“the data consumers.”)The future of a blockchain EMRMedRec plans to perform ongoing usability and feasibility testing of their system with both patients and providers. This process will involve partnering with local healthcare providers to test the efficiency of their prototype. Once ready, they intend to release their framework as open source software. However, they are firmly committed to the principle that to use the system is not to own the data.Unlike most, if not all, of the other nascent blockchain healthcare projects, MedRec is not a company. Nonetheless, their ambitions are similar to a host of startup companies in this emerging space. In terms of their prospects for success, their affiliation with MIT certainly plays in their favor both in terms of instilling trust in participants and in terms of providing access to the university’s technical and human resources. Furthermore, their model’s Database Gatekeeper layer has a number of advantages, noted above, that might make them especially attractive to providers with cost, integration and regulatory concerns. It is perhaps more difficult to predict how providers and patients will respond to their model’s “data economy” approach, although it does appear to provide a genuine incentive to medical researchers.Contact us for more information on blockchain healthcare startups.
PointNurse: blockchain enabled telemedicine.Founded in 2014, PointNurse is a telemedicine provider and “global virtual care community.” PointNurse employs blockchain technology to give “care credits” to nurses, doctors and other participating healthcare professionals toward profit sharing and potential equity in the company, based on activity and performance.PointNurse: blockchain enabled telemedicine using “care credits”The uniqueness of the PointNurse model lies in the company’s “member-owner program.” The top-performing, most proactive nurses, doctors and other healthcare providers in the PointNurse community will not only earn income from their “virtual visits” with patients, but will have the opportunity to participate in profit-sharing while accumulating credits toward equity in the company. These “care credits” are blockchain-based tokens that providers earn for several “markers” of participation, including:Hours spent on-call New PointNurse members recruited Quality of care markersAt the end of the year, PointNurse calculates the total credits for each of its members, which in turn determines their “pro-rata share” of the “community’s profits” for the year. At the same time, PointNurse keeps track of each member’s cumulative lifetime care credits. In the event of a “merger, sale, or IPO,” each member can then redeem their credits for any “pro-rata equity gains” that result.PointNurse believes that their member-owner program, together with its unique care credits, distinguishes them from conventional, “transactional” telemedicine providers.The PointNurse mobile appAt the center of the PointNurse offering is the PointNurse app, found at the Apple app store. PointNurse describes the consumer-facing aspect of their app as a convenient way to have a “virtual visit” with a medical professional “from home, work or on the road,” at a cost of one dollar per minute. Furthermore, patients can use the PointNurse site to find nurse practitioners and medical doctors, organized by time zone and state.The company describes the counterpart provider-facing aspect of their app as a free platform for verified, licensed providers who wish to register to receive “video requests” (whether scheduled or “on-demand”) from new and existing patients. In order to participate, all that a healthcare professional needs is a computer with a working camera, connected to the Internet. And there are no fixed hours. PointNurse aims for “flexibility and freedom,” encouraging participants to work from home on their own schedules.Connection to HealthCombixIn September of 2016, Alex Danzberger, Senior VP at Unitek, joined the PointNurse advisory board. In addition, he made an investment not only in PointNurse, but HealthCombix, which PointNurse “spun off” at that time. HealthCombix builds distributed, blockchain-based apps that bring together systems “at the nexus of healthcare, pharma and insurance.” In particular, HealthCombix aims to encourage patient support groups by providing patients’ friends and family with “rewards for helping patients reach health goals.” This aspect of their model is similar to PointNurse’s care-credit approach, but aimed primarily at caregivers rather than providers. However, under the HealthCombix model, the patients receive rewards for reaching their goals as well. And rather than redeeming rewards for a share of company profits or equity, patients and caregivers alike can redeem them at participating “food, housing and community outlets.”Advocates for blockchain in healthcareAside from their significance as a standalone startup, the PointNurse team has advocated strongly for bringing blockchain into the healthcare industry in general and the nursing profession in particular. For example, a 2016 post on the PointNurse blog envisions a “decentralized autonomous nursing organization” or “DANO,” that will make full of use of blockchain to disrupt and transform the multi-billion dollar nurse-staffing industry. They have also advocated for “out-of-hospital blockchains.”Funding and futurePointNurse has yet to emerge from the seed-funding stage, or at least has not yet announced an institutional round of funding. Therefore, they may not have the resources to move toward their goals at the same speed as more high-profile startups in the blockchain healthcare space such as Gem Health and DokChain, both of which have institutionally-backed parent companies (Gem and Pokitdok, respectively). Nonetheless, PointNurse continues to show signs of life as they evolve toward their goals at their own pace. On April 20th, 2017, PointNurse announced that Elaine Comeau, a former executive at Philips Healthcare with a “distinguished career working in telehealth” would become the company’s new CEO. Ms. Comeau’s vision for the company continues to embrace blockchain.Join our community to learn more about promising blockchain startups in the healthcare space.
DokChain by PokitDok – Blockchain for Healthcare.PokitDok, a healthcare software platform provider, has recently introduced a new offering: DokChain, “blockchain for healthcare.” PokitDok envisions DokChain helping usher in a new era of value-based care handled (in the background) primarily by artificial intelligence (AI), rather than Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). This new breed of AI, in the form of “smart contracts,” will reside on DokChain, the company’s secure blockchain-based network. PokitDok’s expanding set of APIs will, in turn, connect all healthcare participants to the AI-rich DokChain and to each other. An impressive initial group of leading technology and healthcare partners, collectively the “DokChain Health Alliance,” has already signed on to lead the effort. And parent PokitDok’s $5M round of funding in March will certainly help fuel DokChain’s development for the remainder of 2017.The vision of DokChainDokChain made its formal debut on September 27th, 2016 at the Health 2.0 conference in Santa Clara, California. According to PokitDok Co-founder and CEO Lisa Maki, the introduction of blockchain in general (and DokChain in particular) into the healthcare system is part of the shift to value-based care. Maki argues that as the shift progresses, it’s becoming increasing clear that EMRs are no longer the sole repository of healthcare data. As a result, the push toward shared EMRs is at least partly misguided. After all, the EMR cannot capture the complete set of important events contributing to the patient’s overall “episode of care.” However, “smart contracts” can. These digital contracts, also known as “self-executing contracts” or “blockchain contracts” are a new breed of artificial intelligence (AI). Roughly speaking, smart contracts serve as ultra-efficient legal agents that can create, store and enforce contracts supporting the exchange of various forms of value (e.g. property, stock, money, etc.) on the blockchain in real-time. Accordingly, smart contracts, rather than the EMR, according to Maki, will emerge as the central medium for handling healthcare data in the future.The role of DokChainCEO Maki envisions DokChain connecting all endpoints (participants and stakeholders) in the healthcare ecosystem into a single secure blockchain network. These endpoints will not only include EMRs, but devices such as heart monitors. After pulling in data from all the endpoints participating in a given “episode of care,” DokChain records it, while handling permissions through “access grants” that DokChain “maintains and verifies.” The result is a distributed network of secure, richly organized healthcare data for stakeholders to track and share.The role of PokitDokAccording to Maki, although DokChain will serve as the blockchain network itself, PokitDok will provide the APIs connecting all of the following endpoints to the network and its “smart contract services”:Thirty party applications (more than 4,000). Insurance companies (more than 500). “[A]ll registered healthcare providers.”Use case: Insurance benefit checkOn stage at the Health 2.0 conference, Maki walked the audience through four steps in a typical use case—running a check to determine if one’s health insurance will cover a knee examination:Maki emphasizes that the benefits data itself is not stored on the DokChain, but rather in the secure PokitDok Platform. What is stored on DokChain are “access grants” to the benefits data, along with a complete record of the transaction that participants can access and share, subject to their permissions.PokitDok PartnersDokChain has announced an impressive list of initial partners:Microsoft GE Healthcare Adventist Healthcare The Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health SystemThis group, along with others, are joining forces in the DokChain Health Alliance (initially called “the Blockchain Alliance,” but later renamed) which Maki boldly claims will “ultimately define the future of blockchain in our industry.”FundingIn March, 2017, GIS Strategic Ventures (of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America) announced an investment of $5M in PokitDok. The company plans to use the funds not only to further develop DokChain, but to expand their existing API service.The investment round brings PokitDok’s total fundraising to date to $48M.Overall, DokChain is off to a strong start. It has set a clear strategic goal for itself of becoming the AI-run blockchain network for the era of value-based care; it has established a path to integration with the wealth of APIs that its parent company continues to expand; it has landed an impressive set of initial partners with the DokChain Health Alliance; and it has attracted ample funding, alongside parent PokitDok, with March’s $5M round. Although there are other ambitious contenders, such as Gem Health, vying to become “the blockchain of healthcare,” DokChain has come out of the gate with a lot of promise.Follow PokitDoc:Developer Blog: fullmetalhealth.comContact us for more on blockchain healthcare startups.
Patientory – Blockchain, A.I. and Population Health Management.Blockchain Solutions for Population Health ManagementPatientory is a healthcare start-up aiming to transform the way patients keep track of their health information by empowering them to manage their own health care. Although based in Atlanta, Patientory grew out of a collaboration between Boulder, Colorado’s Boomtown Health-Tech Accelerator and Colorado Permanente Medical Group (of Kaiser Permanente). They are also in partnership with Startup Health.Patientory has placed their focus on four inter areas: a mobile app, the Electronic Health Record, the health sector’s first crypto-token, and Patientory’s blockchain platform.The Patientory mobile appSimply called “Patientory,” the Patientory mobile app enables users to store, view and track their health care data using HIPPA-complaint blockchain technology. Patientory’s advanced patient profile gives users instant access to their:Medical history Doctor visits Medications Immunizations Health insuranceOn the Patientory blog, the team argues that the digitization of health care information not only has obvious advantages, such as instant access to one’s health data, but less immediately noticeable advantages as well. These include a reduction in lost data (e.g. from indecipherable handwriting); enhanced patient-doctor communication; emergency alerts (e.g. of life-threatening drug-interactions); and an increase in preventative care due to empowered and informed patients. More generally, Patientory claims that the digitization of health care data will increase healthcare quality and efficiency while reducing the nation’s healthcare costs by billions each year.Patientory and the EHRAccording to Patientory CEO Chrissa McFarlane, adoption of the Electronic Health Record has reached “approximately 90%” among health care providers. Nonetheless, McFarlane points out that recent security breaches have only worsened concerns over the privacy and security of EHRs. Furthermore, doctors and hospitals are often unable to share their information with one another. The result is not only an inefficient system, but a marked decrease in the quality of care. After all, every minute that doctors spend manually entering their patient’s data is another minute they could have spent with their patient. McFarlane maintains that blockchain is the most popular solution to the problem under discussion among technologists specializing in the healthcare sector. Patientory is building their platform accordingly.The Patientory crypto-tokenOn April 25th, Patientory announced that they were taking a bold step toward realizing the task of interconnecting patients’ EHRs (while preserving their privacy) with the introduction of the first crypto-token to the healthcare sector. According to McFarlane, the Patientory platform will transfer tokens—PTYs—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patients. The result: both a reduction in the cost, and an increase in the quality, of healthcare. Patientory’s token sale is set to open on May 17th.The Patientory platformOn a more technical level, the Patientory platform (a health information exchange or HIE) makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology to encrypt and decentralize data so that it distributed and HIPPA-compliant. As a result, with Patientory’s help, “the healthcare ecosystem” now has the means to embrace a blockchain platform and “to seamlessly exchange” information. According to Patientory, providers have every reason to participate, as the blockchain system promises to improve efficiency, eliminate redundancy and bring down the cost of care.Taking a broader view, Patientory sees a new model emerging for the U.S. healthcare system. McFarlane explains that the overall goal is to transition the healthcare system in the U.S. from a “pay-per-service” platform to a “value-based” platform. But to accomplish this task requires a trusted healthcare information system that enables participating organizations to track and reward “medical interventions” based on their “quality, value and effectiveness.”Overall, Patientory has a bold vision backed by a sophisticated app and blockchain platform. Yet the healthcare system has been slow to embrace systematic change in the past. Therefore, whether Patientory will succeed where others have failed in transforming the health sector is an open question. For fans of the “Facebook for healthcare,” a cautious optimism may be in order.Contact us for more information on healthcare start-ups utilizing transformative blockchain technology.
Using Blockchain in Genomics.Blockchains offer a reliable way to establish the provenance of information. A record added to a properly maintained blockchain is irrevocable, unmodifiable, and time-stamped. That’s a strong guarantee that the information existed at the time indicated. It lets a creator establish the existence of prior art on a specified data and avoid errors or falsifications.Participants are issued digital IDs and private keys, and any records they place on the blockchain are digitally signed. They can’t subsequently revoke the records or plausibly claim they didn’t create them.Blockchain and Genomics ResearchThese features can be valuable in genomics. An article in Bio-IT World, “How Blockchain Is Helping Genomics Research,” discusses current work in the area. In pharmaceuticals, new strains are constantly developed and people claim patents on them. A record of a genome unambiguously shows who entered it and when. In patient studies, recording a genome and associated clinical information can make information widely available while guaranteeing its authenticity and integrity.MGC’s blockchain approachMedical Genomics, a Boston-based company, is “using the blockchain for proof of existence.” One of its areas of focus is genomic fingerprinting and safety testing of strains of cannabis for medical purposes. MGC and its parent company Courtagen Life Sciences are involved in sequencing the genomes of patients with seizure disorders. Research has found connections between such conditions and the endocannabinoid system, and MGC is studying marijuana treatment for them.MGC proposes to let participants record genetic information on strains of cannabis they are working with. If a patent later lays claim on that genome, the record will show an earlier description of it. Some companies, known as patent trolls, file dubious patents for the sole purpose of collecting licensing fees. Without such convincing evidence of prior art, it’s difficult to challenge a troll’s claim. Kevin McKernan, the Chief Security Officer of MGC, calls this a way to “digitally notarize” a genome.A central database can serve a similar purpose, but it has problems of trust. It belongs to some company or organization, and businesses may question its neutrality or reliability. A blockchain is shared among many parties, so none of them can alter it, lose records, or add spurious records without detection.Genomics on patientsIf genomics on pharmaceuticals offers promise, genomics on patients can offer still more. The Global Alliance for Genomics and Health, known as GA4GH, is looking into a blockchain on genomics data for variants of cancer. This approach increases the availability of the data, especially in places that would find it difficult to pay for such information.At the same time, the people involved recognize, publishing genetic information on individuals raises privacy concerns. EU privacy requirements are especially strict. If the information can be linked to identifiable people, that is a legal concern.Private blockchainsA private blockchain might be a workable compromise. Private blockchains provide only a weak form of a public blockchains guarantees, since copies are limited to what the managing authority allows and aren’t publicly verifiable. Still, they give a better guarantee of provenance and authenticity than a conventional database. All records are cryptographically signed, so a central authority can’t easily forge or alter the records any participant creates.Christian Saucier, CTO at Ubitquity, sees private blockchains not only as a way to record sensitive information but as an internal tool for large organizations. Within the organization, they can serve to exchange and validate data. The “smart contract” aspect of blockchains can coordinate actions among different parts of a large corporation.Provenance and authenticity are a part of any blockchain use, but usually they aren’t the primary goal. Applications need them for financial transactions, consolidated information from multiple sources, and contracts. Sometimes the only thing needed is to show when a record was entered and make sure it’s authentic. Genomics is a striking example, though certainly not the only one.Are you interested in joining the blockchain healthcare discussion? Contact us with any questions you have.
2017 Pharma Supply Blockchain Forum.This June 6th, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is holding a major conference on blockchain applications for the pharmacy supply chain. This breakthrough event will bring together pharmaceutical professionals, engineers and programmers from around the world.  The even will be held at John’s Hopkins University facilities in Rockville, Maryland. Blockchain is the revolutionary new technology the allows two un parties to transact and store information using a complex mathematical string. It powers the popular digital currency bitcoin. The conference will explore how this technology can support new pharma breakthroughs and operations.IEE Blockchain ForumThe IEEE has over 420,000 members in over 160 countries and is the largest technical professionals group in the world.  They group has specifically taken up the cause of promoting blockchain technology to its members and bringing in new partners such as the pharma industry. This powerful technology could create major advances in health care and create many new jobs for IEEE members.  For that reason, the group is squarely behind this emerging technology.The event will be a one day educational forum going in-depth on the power of blockchain technology. The event will not simply review how the technology works. Instead, it is for people that are already familiar with it and are able to understand the technical details discussed at the conference.The ideal audience and attendees will be specialists that can implement solutions.  That includes managers, researchers, programmers, engineers and other company operations personnel. It could include prospective entrepreneurs but will also include academics, government regulators, corporate workers and even some non-governmental non-profit personnel.  Some investors and non-technical people may want to attend the event to gain further understanding of the technology and its purposes, although the topics will not be primarily geared for them.The first topic is optimizing the supply chain from production to patient. Blockchain may be used to provide more transparency and streamline the logistics process in this case.  Organizers also hope to better understand the restoration of the integrity of the supply chain using blockchain technology.Another topic is maximizing the potential revenue from the information stored on the blockchain. Investors, business people and entrepreneurs will be most interested in this topic. Some potential ideas include providing data on trial results or different compounds with an intuitive database or software system.Event organizers also want presentations on combining other emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and DLTs to optimize the supply chain. Academics, regulators and other innovators might be most interested in this topic.  Further, the event will explore how different partners can harmonize different technologies or standards and work together. The event will hopefully start the process of coordinating on singular standards for the industry.The role of digital identity in the pharma supply chain is another important issue.  As  more health care is delivered and customized to the individual, this question will inevitably become more important.Data governance is another key. What will be the standards to store data and how will it be migrated to the blockchain?  What software will interact with data and how will users analyze the information?Lastly, regulators will speak about how they see blockchain technology and its relation to the pharma industry and supply chain. Their guidance will help focus the efforts of industry and research to pursue government objectives, avoid areas the government discourages and also comply with government demands.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes leading healthcare  blockchain innovation, events and companies employing blockchain technology in the healthcare sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the HIT landscape. For more information, please contact us. A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Simply Vital Health – Blockchain Fueled Value Based Care.Simply Vital Health is using blockchain technology to clear a path for patient careData portability, track-ability and analysis is continually a problem in the healthcare sector. These deficiencies lead to lost time and money as well as deficiencies in patient care.  Fixing these problems will improve the overall experience and wellness of patients while saving time and money for hospitals and private providers alike. Fortunately, Simply Vital Health has developed a blockchain based based solution that is simple, easy to use and integrates with existing systems.Founder of Simply Vital Health, Katherine Kuzmeskas, MPH, has a strong passion for patient centric quality care. She saw opportunity for the makings of Simply Vital Health while working at the Center for Musculoskeletal Care. She states: “I heard physicians and nurses say over and over again how they wanted to be able to see how their patients were recovering after they left the hospital. Hearing directly from the clinical team that they wanted a more direct connection to their patients was excellent validation.”Virtually every provider is concerned with following clinically validated, government and insurance approved care plans to assure that the care will not be denied for payment. Simply Vital Health provides an online tool powered by blockchain technology that monitors and records providers as they administer every step along the value chain. If a provider forgets a step, they can quickly check the platform to see which process has been overlooked. One of blockchains key features, an immutable audit trail, enables providers a sense of quality assurance. If the government or insurance provider seeks to deny coverage, the process can be quickly and securely shared to confirm that all of the appropriate steps were taken.  This level of automated efficiency allows providers more time to focus on their patients, and less time worrying about record keeping.Similarly, providers are constantly concerned with the cost of care and revenue associated with care. Without careful monitoring, costs can balloon out of hand and cause major losses.  Simply Vital Health provides an extremely valuable tool that tracks payments and processes closely.  It includes the prospective payment programs and helps providers understand the true financials. This data is securely held with blockchain technology in an easy to use and understand format as well.Providers are often met with intense data demands from industry associations, internal efficiency standards, clinical best practices and of course government and insurance payment demands. Simply Vital Health allows for tracking of CMS programs including MACRA and APMs through its simple tool. It conducts advanced analytics and also intensive monitoring. Physicians and provider management will have a much better window into their operations. The tool creates custom reports and can be shared internally and externally through the highly secure blockchain format.Without these reports or data availability, audits and denials of payment are common. Institutions need to prepare for these consequences and take preemptive action to avoid the pain and cost of an audit or denial. Without a sophisticated tool that can access the correct data rapidly, an institution may be in store for a painful process, even if they have done everything correctly.Best of all, these monitoring and tracking systems integrate seamlessly into existing legacy software systems. While a back-end system run entirely on the blockchain is theoretically possible, it is still not a reality for almost any health care provider. For that reason, Simply Vital Health recognized that it would have to produce a tool that integrates with existing system. Their blockchain solution is easy to input as an add-on to the most popular existing systems. In addition, the company can work with providers to customize the solution to the individual demands of an institution.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes some of the leading companies employing blockchain technology in the health care sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the sector. For more information, please contact us.  A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Healthcoin – blockchain-enabled platform for diabetes prevention.Diabetes is one of the biggest challenges in health care today. Due to changing diet and lifestyle patterns, more and more people are contracting this disease. In addition, the personal and public costs of the disease are growing rapidly. Fortunately, a company called Healthcoin has emerged to fight this disease using a combination of incentives and technology to influence the choice people make. They hope to prevent new diabetes cases and reduce the symptoms of current patients. Blockchain is a powerful new technology (used in the revolutionary Bitcoin monetary system), that creates an unbreakable mathematical string to store and exchange information. Healthcoin has taken advantage of this technology to create a system that aims to radically reduce the effects of diabetes.The cost of diabetes is simply exploding. According to one study, the global cost of the disease exceeds $827 billion dollars and 3.7 million lives annually. As the average age of Americans and people around the world gradually increases, more diabetes cases are expected as people become more sedative. That will increase continue to increase costs. One study estimates that a quarter of all adults in America will have diabetes by 2050.Personal costs of diabetes are also huge. The monthly costs of insulin ranges from hundreds to thousands of dollars. Additionally, individuals with diabetes find that they are more likely to face other injuries ranging from cardiovascular issues to blood problems to constant nagging lower body injuries. All of these issues cause more use of the health care system which means more out of pocket expenses as well as a higher overall insurance bill.However, Healthcoin has a revolutionary incentive system that tracks all of a person’s lifestyle choices. As they continue to make good choice, they submit biomarkers (like heart rate, weight, sugar level etc.) to a database run on the blockchain. Healthcoin’s algorithm then calculates the change or improvement in the health of the individual. Based on their improvement, they earn a certain amount of Healthcoins. Healthcoins can be used to decrease insurance costs, recognize achievement and demonstrate improvement with health care providers, friends and family alike.The key to the innovation is that the results of the progress are stored on the blockchain. The user and Healthcoin have complete control over who has access to the information. That means that the key personnel including doctors, family, insurers and the individual patient will have access in an unbreakable database. The patient may also elect to share the information with friends, an employer, the government or public health organization using the information for research. The data can be uploaded, stored and shared from anywhere in the world but is also completely secure using the blockchain technology.The incentive structure of the Healthcoin system also creates a strong impetus for the patient to make the right choices to improve their health. Those include exercising, eating right, increased everyday activity and better mental health. With the Healthcoin system, these choices are immediately reflected in biomarkers which are tracked closely. Improvement over time leads to a reduction of medical costs as well as a reduction in the costs the insurer will bill. Patients seeking to reduce their medical costs would be wise to make the healthy choices that reduce the symptoms of diabetes and are reflected in their biomarkers.Healthcoin’s revolutionary solution and technology are continuing to gain traction. While the firm is still small, its progress may help to tackle the serious problem of diabetes.Block Chain Healthcare Review is the leading site for understanding and discovering blockchain based healthcare companies. The site helps interested experts and community members to discover emerging companies, technology, personnel and news. For more information, please contact us.—–You might also like:Abid Hospital in Pakistan Accepts PakCoin Cryptocurrency How Gem is building a blockchain healthcare network
Blockchain and Healthcare Data Management.There is a revolution unfolding with modern day healthcare information systems (HIS). If you are in the industry you undoubtedly are aware that blockchain technology is the latest buzz for HIS. Blockchain technology has the power to transform how health information systems are managed by working on solutions for many of the problems that has plagued the sharing of healthcare information in the first place.What is Blockchain?There is one thing that blockchain technology is not, simple to explain. Blockchain was developed for financial institutions to track deposits and withdrawals. It has allowed financial institutions to create an unamendable list that is time stamped within a cryptographic network. Copies are shared on every node of the network to provide easy, accurate information. The possibilities of what it can do for health care data are tremendous.Problems with healthcare information systemsHealthcare information management has always been handled by humans that have tried to:Manage information accuracy Share information securely View updated informationUnfortunately for the patient there are three ways that the above is done that does not really work. Each modality of sharing information has its failings that blockchain will solve:The SolutionsBlockchain would allow all providers to access your entire health history in a safe secure manner. Health information systems will be able to access community wide ledgers that have up to date patient information always available. It could change how services were provided, make diagnostic easier, manage medications more accurately and even help to provide more accurate treatment plans.Need to find direction with legacy healthcare information systems? We offer consulting for interested parties looking for blockchain HIS expertise and implementation ROI assesments.
How Gem is building a blockchain healthcare network.How much do you know about your medical identity? You know you’re generally in good health. You know your height and your weight. You know if you have any chronic conditions. But can you remember how many tetanus shots you’ve had? Do you know which percentile your height placed you in for each year of life? Could you tell your doctor the exact amount of time you’ve been taking a prescription medication to the day?These are the details that make up your “medical identity.” A data scientist would call these details “longitudinal data.” Longitudinal data consists of hundreds of data points that are updated over the course of your life to paint the picture of your health. Each time you go to the doctor’s office, you add data to your longitudinal data set. Medical scribes and your primary care doctor carefully update your file and tuck it away amongst all your records.But there is a problem with this system. It is slow, cumbersome and practically unsharable. If you change doctors you have to go through length processes to ensure that your records arrive at your new doctor. If disaster strikes and you need your medical records right away, precious time is wasted hunting them down.The team at Gem, startup based in Venice California, is seeking to apply blockchain thinking to these data issues that are rampant in the healthcare sector. While Gem wishes to expand their process to include blockchain-based problem solving for all industries, they are beginning by tackling the issue of “patient identity” in the healthcare system.Gem seeks to connect all the disparate arms of the healthcare industry by creating a communal healthcare ecosystem. The key to their system is that they include a heavily patient-driven component. They have partnered with Phillips to begin their work on making patients active contributors and keepers of their medical identity.Their system works upon a series of nested systems that are all recorded and enforced using the blockchain ledger concept. On the patient level, mobile apps can record wellness data (think exercise apps like Strava, or your Apple Health App). Hospitals continue to collect and keep patient clinical records. Insurance companies continue to keep records of their claims. While these systems are now separated, Gem’s system seeks to create an ecosystem where these records can interact.This ecosystem is called the “Gem Health Network,” and is intended to create a standard for healthcare data that does not compromise security or privacy.The theft of healthcare  data has become a pressing issue for insurance companies and other medical enterprises. In December, the firm Quest Enterprises lost 34,000 files of patient data in a hacking attack, including their names, addresses, and phone numbers as well as further longitudinal data. Quest patient systems are relied on by many medical professionals even though their online platform is not encrypted.Gem’s blockchain application seeks to add security to patient information in two ways. Firstly, “permissioned blockchains” can control who has access to certain sensitive information. Additionally the identity of both parties in blocked, ensuring anonymity for sensitive healthcare data in the event that a hacker infiltrates the system. They can never come away with a way to link patent information to the patient themselves. Additionally, the shared ledger in which every event is timestamped cannot be tampered with. There are thousands of safeguards throughout the system (Gem’s Health Network) which are constantly updated in real time.Gem’s concept for a healthcare web has gained significant traction. They were rated the second most popular business development of the year by Bitcoin Magazine. They have raised 10.4 million in Series A funding so far and enjoy the support of companies like Capital One and KEC Ventures.
Hashed Health, a Blockchain Healthcare Consortium.Hashed Health, a startup organization based in Nashville, has received $1.8 million to promote and develop blockchain-based healthcare technology. The sources are Martin Ventures and Fenbushi Capital.Formed in 2016, Hashed Health describes itself as a blockchain healthcare consortium. COO Corey Todaro mentions that it includes “a broad range of types of organizations”. These organizations will coalesce into working groups. A Development Studio will accept ideas from the working groups and bring them from the proof-of-concept level to commercial products.Hashed Health has joined the Hyperledger Healthcare Working Group. Its principal aim within the group is to work on blockchain libraries and protocols. Other organizations in the group include Accenture, Gem, Kaiser Permanente, and IBM. The working group’s aim is to evaluate use cases for blockchain technology in healthcare. It is turning over a set of 70 proposals to the Department of Health and Human Services.Hashed Health is working on Facilitating transactionsHashed Health’s gateway projects include a demonstration of the ability to “improve data liquidity” in provider credentials. Confirming provider credentials and enrolling them in payment networks is a tedious process today. Payers often have inaccurate information; according to Hashed Health, the information in their directories is often as much as 20% wrong. Establishing credentials generally takes over 120 days. Patients endure the delays and costs. The complexity of the system is a major cause of high insurance premiums and out-of-pocket charges.Hashed’s alternative is a “decentralized transaction layer” that holds provider information, including updates and corrections. “Digital data assets” are encrypted data items created by contributors to the blockchain. Only registered users can contribute, following the permissioned blockchain model. Transactions consist of transferring assets from one user to another, and all transactions are recorded on the blockchain. Client applications uses a REST API in peer-to-peer mode.Auditability is a central goal. Lightweight clients will be able to audit the transaction records, with complete verification rather than just random samples. They can work directly with the blockchain, eliminating the need for a secure server. Providers are required to retain complex documentation for years. Doing this is costly under traditional methods. Blockchain records keep all the information together, protecting it from loss or alteration. Anyone authorized to access them can identify omissions without much trouble.Blockchain Regulatory and cultural issuesTodaro recognizes that regulation is as big an issue as technology. HIPAA requirements for protection of personal information are strict, and fines for breaches can be huge. Sharing methods that could work in other industries aren’t always feasible in healthcare.Beyond that, he says that “the biggest hurdle to the implementation of blockchain is the industry culture in healthcare.” Existing business models are based on holding on to data. The idea of sharing data in new ways is “threatening to a lot of enterprises.” Todaro recognizes that requiring organizations to change their workflows will run into heavy resistance; the new technology has to fit the workflow. The consortium’s goal is to develop new forms of organization and build new kinds of competence. It aims for a regulatory environment that will let blockchain approaches flourish.The working group structure stresses collaboration rather than isolated development. Working together, they’ll be able to develop multiple proofs of concept in parallel, and the Development Studio will pick up the best of the ideas. Projects will stress open-source development.The ideas which Hashed Health is promoting sound excellent. Businesses will have to work together to develop standards, make secure sharing part of the culture, and obtain a favorable regulatory environment . How much does the consortium have going for it? Does it include any influential members? These are the questions Hashed Health will have to answer in order to prove itself.Are you ready to take the next step in the blockchain revolution? We’d love to talk with you. Contact us with any questions you have.
September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge.As blockchain technology continues to improve and the ecosystem improves, there are more and more events to highlight the successes of the community.  As a distributed system of accounts, blockchain’s unique and virtually uncrackable technology as led to an explosion of applications that can improve the lives of humans around the world.  Although original uses were focused on finance, blockchain healthcare applications continue to grow and improve.  The September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge is one such event that highlights many uses of the technology, including especially applications.The event will be hosted by the National Institute of Health in Maryland on the 26th and 27th of September 2017.  The NIH is calling for people, companies or researches to present papers and new research about how to secure transmit and encode digital health care records. As part of the government’s requirements under Obamacare for hospitals to switch to digital health records, virtually all of the new medical records are stored on computers.  However, no single system or software is being used to transmit that data around the county to different centers about each patient.Fortunately, blockchain technology may be the solution to this key problem of the health care sector.  In fact, some of the paper’s that will be presented at the challenge have already been announced.One paper, produced by MIT researchers called “Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and Data” envisions a secure peer to peer network where patients can freely transmit their records to the medical providers of their choice.  This gives them the power and freedom to control who sees the records without the worry of the information being stolen.  That is because blockchain’s encryption capability makes stealing the data extremely difficult.Another paper by an unaffiliated researcher is titled “Blockchain Technologies: A Whitepaper Discussing how Claims Process can be Improved”. The paper discusses how the insurance claims process can be streamlined and smoothed for all parties.  The insurance and reimbursement process is one of the most infuriating and complex aspects of the healthcare industry for all involved.  Doctors hate the labyrinth of documentation needed and the all to frequent denials of routine procedures.  Insurance companies and the government hate to be overbilled or fraudulently billed by doctors seeking to provide medically unnecessary procedures. While blockchain technologies cannot solve all of the problems, they can make documentation and sharing much easier.  All parties involved will be more accountable as the medical information becomes more transparent, shareable and verifiable.The conference will be held at the National Institute of Standards and Technology which is a division of the National Institute of Health.  The NIST is key to formulating government policies and standards in the medical industry. Participants will have access to hear the latest from policy makers about the government’s attitudes and uses of blockchain technologies.The conference will also include updates on some of the government’s most ambitious blockchain technology endeavors.  For example, the Digital Bazaar Project is a task that could give every citizen a digital profile that is secure and interoperable on blockchain.  That would represent a huge step forward for the health care space in particular but also finance, voting and other record keeping.  The Xcelerate Solutions Project is another blockchain based program that allows disaster relief workers to identify themselves using blockchain technology and gain access to a disaster site for clean up.  FEMA is heavily involved in this project.Lastly, all of the challenge winners will be announced and prizes will be awarded.  Those prizes include grants to continue research.  Winners will also gain additional status in the blockchain community as an expert in government adoption.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a leading site providing the latest events and information about this critical sector.  For more information, please contact us.
Blockchain & Smart Contracts Conference 2017 – Berlin.The Blockchain & Smart Contracts Conference will be held on February 20th-22nd in Berlin and industry leaders from many individual economic sectors will be descending on the city to discuss the technologies’ impact and future in Germany and beyond.Blockchain & Smart ContractsThe event sponsors list alone indicates both how diverse and how extensive interest in blockchain technologies is. Despite initial excitement and proliferation in America, adoption of blockchain technologies in the European private and public sectors is expanding at a far greater rate as sponsorships from both Deutsche Bank and the European Central Bank can attest.The first panel of the conference focuses on the regulatory issues of using blockchain and smart contract technology. Lead by Professor Dr. Nils Urbach of the University of Bayreuth and Fraunhofer FIT, who is an outspoken expert and advocate of blockchain regulatory issues. Klaus Löber, Senior Adviser to the European Central Bank will pick up with a perspective from the public sector, discussing the implications for and future of the regulation of blockchain technologies.Annika Schröder, the Director of Group Innovation at UBS, will discuss her company’s ever-increasing interest in blockchain technologies. UBS has already opened a Blockchain Innovation Lab in London. Furthermore, UBS has been pursuing applications of the infrastructure for nearly two years. This makes UBS one of the earliest major corporate adopters of the blockchain.Other panels will deal mainly with the implications of the blockchain and smart contracts in the finance sector. Additionally, they will explore more novel applications like use for voting and elections in Germany. This event promises to be one of the premier conferences concerning blockchain technology in Europe and beyond. The issues discussed about forming the regulatory backbone for blockchain technologies will undoubtedly have relevance for the healthcare industry.Please contact us for any questions you have.
Blockchain Opportunity Summit 2016 Recap – Smart Contracts.The Blockchain Opportunity Summit was held in Manhattan recently; industry leaders and blockchain visionaries were on hand to discuss the technology’s implications for diverse firms representing many sectors of the economy, from finance to real estate to healthcare. This was represented in the opening panel discussion, which featured Judd Bagley of Overstock.com, Ragnar Lifthrasir, Founder of the International Blockchain Real Estate Association, and Laura Shin of Forbes, one of the most prominent journalists covering blockchain technologies today. The conversation was lively and informative, bringing the industry leaders in attendance up to speed on the importance of recognizing blockchain technologies as relevant to all industries, not simply those in the financial sector.One of the most exciting technologies developed with the underlying blockchain infrastructure is that of smart contracts. The Blockchain Opportunity Summit devoted an entire panel to smart contracts. Ron Quaranta, EVP of Loyyal and Mark Smith, CEO of Symbiont provided their experiences with smart contracts and their utility for any industry, especially those with extensive regulatory oversight. Smart contracts have the potential to drastically reduce the regulatory and overall paperwork burden in healthcare. They provide an exceedingly private and secure environment for the verification of service fulfillment, as well as creating an indestructible record of actions for insurers and clients alike.One of the final panels of note dealt with the current legal environment pertaining to blockchain technologies. Though blockchain implementations like Bitcoin have faced strict legal scrutiny, panelists argued that the increased attention of federal agencies on blockchain technologies adds to the legitimacy and prevalence of the framework, and that it is up to industry leaders now to collaborate with these agencies to develop industry-friendly regulations going forward.
Cyph MD Puts Healthcare Information on the Blockchain.There’s a natural tension between information sharing and privacy. Providing reliable health care requires having all relevant information available, but people don’t want just anyone knowing what conditions they have and what medications they’re taking. Nor are they thrilled with having a central authority manage everything. They want information to be reliable, available, and under their control. Startup companies are looking at technological solutions to this problem.Secure information sharingCyph MD offers a novel approach to the problem, using the distributed trust of the blockchain. Its creator is Brontech, a startup in Sydney, Australia. Brontech adapted the Ethereum platform for “smart contracts” for health information. Ethereum’s design allows people who don’t know each other to establish an identity and authorize a sequence of actions.A contract is basically an “if-then” requirement that two or more parties accept. The concept has many applications beyond business agreements. Software developers use “design by contract” to avoid defects resulting from unexpected conditions. In the healthcare realm, people who hold information contract with those who need information to release it only when properly authorized. The patient ought to be able to authorize releasing information, or to designate others who can release it.Identity is a key concept, since healthcare information is always tied to an individual. Most of us take for granted that we can establish our identities, but many people, especially those displaced by war and violence, can’t do it easily. All of us want safety from impersonation and identity theft. Co-founder Emma Poposka says, “We are trying to build a digital identity that’s like bulletproof, and that can be used by everybody, even by people who don’t necessarily have legal identities in their countries.”Cyph MD manages identity with hierarchical certificates. A hospital can issue identity tokens to all participating practitioners. How patients with minimal access to technology will establish their identity remains an open question, which Brontech hopefully will address soon. Perhaps biometrics will offer a solution.Gaining adoptionThe regulatory situation could pose problems for any blockchain-based management of health information. Many countries have strict regulations, such as HIPAA in the United States, of storage and transmission of personal health information. The blockchain approach is fundamentally different from the usual model of a central server which is carefully protected. Anyone can see the blockchain, but no single party is responsible for it, and its protection rests on the strength of its cryptography.Medical organizations are conservative about protecting patient information. Before they’ll adopt a new way of storing and conveying it, they’ll want a high level of confidence that it won’t leak information, either because of flaws in the technology or mistakes in using it.Since its usefulness depends on sharing, multiple organizations have to adopt Cyph MD before it offers much value. So far Brontech isn’t saying much about its customers. It will need to get at least one major institution, or a significant number of smaller ones, to adopt the technology before there’s a viable ecosystem.AccoladesIn CIO Magazine, Peter B. Nichol calls Brontech one of “the top three blockchain-based companies to watch in 2017.” Cyph MD was the “People’s Choice Winner” in the Westpac Innovation Challenge for ways to improve productivity in Australian healthcare.Brontech also publishes Owlee, for identity management. It uses the same blockchain technology as Cyph MD. Owlee offers peer verification and authentication of credentials and references.Revolutionizing how institutions share healthcare information and how patients control it is an ambitious goal for a startup company. Success would mean fewer mistakes in treatment, faster access to information, better privacy, and continuity for people experiencing major life changes.Contact us to stay updated on the latest developments on healthcare blockchain technology.
What to expect at next year’s APAC Blockchain Conference.Next spring, technologists, business process experts, and forward-thinking industry leaders from around the world will convene at the University of Technology Sydney for the Asia-Pacific (APAC) Blockchain Conference 2017. Developed in partnership with the Australian Digital Currency Commerce Association (ADCCA), this two-day event aims to “look beyond the hype” of blockchain technology and to focus instead on real opportunities for cost-saving implementations across a broad array of industries. An impressively diverse panel of experts will weigh in, not only on the disruptive potential for blockchain technologies to improve business processes, but also on the various obstacles that remain to be overcome before widespread adoption and realistic implementation can begin.Although this conference is not specifically focused on the healthcare sector, there are a number of things on the agenda to be excited about for those interested in healthcare applications of blockchain technology. The first day of the conference is a plenary session in which panelists and keynote speakers will address such topics as:The latest real-world applications of smart contracts, highlighting those that move beyond mere regulatory compliance, product tracing, and service management. Design challenges currently hindering widespread blockchain adoption, including network integrity, distributed power, security, and rights preservation. The emerging need for skilled workers to make sure organizations remain competitive in the coming age of blockchain disruption.Ways blockchain technology may reshape local and global economic markets and the way private industry responds to the new contours of supply and demand in a world of distributed process automation. The regulatory framework necessary for organizations to embrace blockchain solutions and the responsibility of corporate entities to ensure adequate internal controls over open source technologies to reduce risk exposure in highly regulated industries.On day two, there will be two separate streaming sessions offered, and participants will have their choice of which to attend. Stream 1 focuses on banking and financial applications, while Stream 2–the one more likely to appeal to healthcare organizations–focuses on government, smart contracts, and industry applications. There are a number of topics in this latter stream that sound promising:Blockchain solutions for verifying and storing medical records and proving identities. Real-world security and anti-fraud applications, including some that may be relevant to regulatory compliance in healthcare services for protecting sensitive patient data. The potential for distributed data processing to reduce or eliminate human links in organizational structures–including, presumably, in healthcare organizations and those they do business with, such as insurance companies and government oversight agencies.Of course, we’ll be monitoring the conference proceedings with great interest, so be sure to stay in touch. Meanwhile, those interested in attending in person can find all the registration details here.
BlockCon Conference Review: Singapore 2017.The first global Blockchain (BlockCon 2017) event takes place in Singapore on March 28 & 29 at Marina Bay Sands. Blockchains are public networks where transactions are recorded and accessible to all parties for verification purposes. The possibilities for use across an array of business applications are endless. These conferences are an effort to link some of the various parts of industry where Blockchains can be immediately useful. Also, speakers take the opportunity to educate groups on the direction of the technology.The event will feature live demonstrations and lectures on real applications for industries. Fintech was one of the first sectors to embrace new methods for international buying and selling through Blockchain innovations. Growing enthusiasm for the technology has forced other industries to consider the potential. BlockCon Conference 2017 will see representatives from healthcare and finance to entrepreneurs and coders.The event expects to have over 60 speakers and 70 sponsors. Various startup tech companies and individual entrepreneurs submitted working papers and opened up registration for new concept proposals. One unique element of BlockCon 2017 is the ‘proof of concept’ portion that allows companies to share their tested ideas.Some of the highlighted items for the event will focus on authentication, fraud, smart contracts, self-executing contracts, and identity. Some of the attendees will focus on the regulation side of things since compliance is always a cost issue for anyone interested in putting in new programs.Over 1,000 global innovators from various backgrounds and schools of thought will share diverse ideas from the growing universe of Blockchain technology. Make plans to attend. Check out our website for more details.Blockcon 2017 Singapore AgendaWhat to expect at next year’s APAC Blockchain Conference
Smart Health Profile: A Solution to Medicaid Churning.Recently the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) embarked upon their “Blockchain Challenge,” which solicited proposals on blockchain as a tool with which to improve healthcare IT.The smart health profileFifteen proposals were selected as finalists, including a whitepaper by the Blockchain Futures Lab titled “A Blockchain Profile for Medicaid Applicants and Recipients.” The paper introduces a blockchain-based innovation, the smart health profile, which would use tools such as tokens, wallets, smart contracts and oracle services “as a foundation for rethinking the way that individual health and financial information is accessed and used.”The whitepaper applies the principles behind the smart health profile specifically to the problem of “churning” within Medicaid, whereby complex means-tested programs of eligibility, repetitive re-qualifications, and lengthy waiting periods yield a “constant exit and reentry of beneficiaries.” As a result of this turnover, the average adult within the Medicaid system is covered for only four-fifths of the year. Further, access to care is lost, poor health outcomes are more likely, and care providers must dedicate time to constantly checking recipient eligibility.The proposal argues that a blockchain-based smart health profile and streamlined infrastructure would provide solutions to the obstacles responsible for churning, including:distributed data sources a high need for simultaneous privacy and transparency verification requirements a need for intelligent assistance throughout the processIndeed, as a distributed ledger technology blockchains’ dynamic record would provide a truly distributed identity in enabling on-demand access to specific information, regardless of where the information may reside. The aggregation and verification of data from an array of sources, in combination with a smart query system, would then enable the profile to “act as a broker that can answer questions…as the need arises.” And when combined with artificial intelligence, that information may allow the smart profile to remind a user and/or health professional regarding medication refills, contraindications, high-risk behaviors and Medicaid eligibility changes. All the while, the profile would present a pseudonymous profile, meaning that only those provided with a private key would be able to unlock the identity of its subject.Essentially, the smart pseudonymous profile would utilize zero-knowledge proofs and “diverse data streams that are verified through consensus oracle networks,” to build a more efficient, effective Health IT system.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
ONC Blockchain Challenge Winner: MIT’s Experimental Learning Proposal.As part of the President’s Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI), in August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began their “Blockchain Challenge.” The ONC challenge solicited proposals on how blockchain may be utilized to improve healthcare IT and to enable a “new era of clinical care through research, technology, and policies that empower patients, researchers, and providers to work together toward the development of individualized care.”Of the more than 70 proposals received, 15 were selected as finalists. Among those selected was Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and DataProject, a whitepaper by less succinctly named PharmOrchard of MIT’s Experimental Learning “MIT FinTech: Future Commerce.”MIT’s proposal explored threats PMI data’s security, confidentiality, integrity and availability and presented he OPAL/Enigma project3 as a strategy towards mitigating those challenges. The OPAL/Enigma project3 creates a peer-to-peer network based on highly optimized multi-party computation and secret-sharing via a permissioned blockchain that records and controls access through smart contracts and digital identities. OPAL thereby enabling complete privacy in analyzing jointly stored data, increasing interoperability. In sum, the OPAL/Enigma project3 uses blockchain technology to resolve the tension between the creation of a secure environment for stakeholder Electronic Health Information (EHI) and the necessity of efficiency in sharing that sensitive information. And, as a secure infrastructure that doesn’t sacrifice the ability of exchangeability of data, OPAL would be a potential tool providing:resolution of infrastructural matters, such as time and cost  to the analysis, storage and manipulation of health information; a better framework for precision medicine trials; the development of more comparative trials; a more cost-effective development of drugs; and the development of more effective treatments to patients.The proposal focuses on the OPAL system as a platform for the creation of accessible (yet confidential) databases of patient information at scale, and the ability to utilize information for expansive and nuanced adaptive clinical medical trials. However, it also notes that the system would, on an individual level, allow for a more holistic treatment of patients via a shared medical history.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
ONC Blockchain Winner: Accenture Proposal.This past August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began a “Blockchain Challenge.” Namely, they solicited white papers on the potential uses of blockchain technology in health IT to address blockchain’s potential contributions in the “privacy, security, and scalability challenges of managing electronic health records and resources.”ONC Blockchain Challenge Whitepaper Review: AccentureOf the more than 70 proposals, 15 were chosen based on multiple factors, including:the approach towards market viability; its creativity; the ability to inform and foster transformative change; the potential to support a number of national health objectives; and the potential to advance the flow of information.Among the ONC Challenge finalists was an eleven-page proposal by Accenture. Accenture’s proposal, titled Blockchain: Securing a New Health Interoperability Experience, aims at improving patient outcomes and interoperability via the integration of blockchain’s distributed ledger technology with existing IT systems. The proposal further focused on three specific applications “relevant to the mission of the ONC.”Secure and trusted care recordsCreating secure healthcare records into “an electronic chain of events, while preserving the provenance and integrity of the records.” Using access and control permissions in conjunction with solutions such as tokenization, pseudonymization or masking technologies, privacy and security of records would be improved.Identity ProofingStrengthening identity proofing, as well as linking between identities, by preserving a transparent record of “the declared identities of both patients and healthcare professionals.” In maintaining complete record integrity using the distributed ledger feature, auditability would be increased.  Therefore, healthcare fraud would more be more likely to be recognized by patients and providers, and then brought to light.Patient ConsentEmpowering patients by securing their decisions and directives within the secure healthcare record. If patient consent statements, access control decisions and directives were captured in an immutable blockchain, then healthcare professionals would be able to trust those statements and act on them accordingly.While the paper acknowledged that blockchain may serve as a cohesive force within healthcare’s complex data ecosystem, it asserted that blockchain “must be additive” and should not “invalidate” or “minimize” existing technology. Accenture further states that it “enthusiastically” supports the future of blockchain technology in the healthcare realm, and believes it to be a positive force in solving current healthcare industry challenges.If you’d like to learn more, feel free to contact us.
Blockchains Rising Impact on Healthcare.The current healthcare IT (HIT) infrastructure holds healthcare data in some type of centralized location such as an EHR system or a repository run by a health information exchange (HIE). Health IT systems notoriously suffer from critical flaws  to privacy and security due to the complexity of sharing troves of medical and financial data from various points of care.Blockchain technology is a way of organizing data so that transactions can be verified and recorded through the consensus of all parties. Blockchain technology requires each individual participant (i.e. node) to hold a copy of the entire record.  Any change to this record must be compared against every node before being approved . The trick for the healthcare sector is to decide how much personal information to actually put on the blockchain (depending on need). The other option is investing in the development of better key distribution systems that could allow individual users to allocate access to each point of care such as Provider X, Specialist Y, Pharmacy Z etc.Blockchain Technology Impact in Healthcare InnovationIntroduction of blockchain in healthcare will address these matters. The public conversation about blockchain in the healthcare sector is gaining traction. The Distributed: Health conference showcased a strong desire to learn and innovate was palpable.Control of medical expenditureMedical care is far too high and continues to rise. Solving this problem is not in sight, even as the health sector moves in to adopt blockchain. As blockchain continues to prove relevant in streamlining cost saving measures in finance, the health sector will in turn address optimizing transaction based operational bottlenecks. Examples include bundled payments and claims remittance. Steady adoption is key to success, taking lessons learned from the rapid adoption in the finance sector.Updating current HIT infrastructureAs opposed to adopton, some argue that it’s better to upgrade the existing infrastructure as a short term fix. The argument sticks to the fact that the healthcare industry is not yet ready for production-ready technology. While that may be true as of this writing, it most likely won’t stay true for long. The conversation has shifted from tech enthusiast circles to the boardroom in a very short period of time.HIT Security ConcernsSecurity of health records and other details are imperative to secure in the healthcare sector. In an article published by Reuters, medical record are worth more to hackers than credit card numbers. Now that HIPPA mandates for EHRs are in full fine mode for non compliance, developing cryptographically secured methods for sharing PHI data is a must win battle for the U.S.  healthcare system is to survive.For more details on upcoming block chain conferences, contact us.
Contribution of Blockchain Technology to Startups.Security in the healthcare sector is paramount, and for a long time, many continue to ignore this fact, driven by various reasons. Other than that, traditional systems in use do not make it any better but continue to allow leakage of sensitive data that can act as leverage, to achieve something.Blockchain market approachStartups are increasingly interested in new technology in a bid to approach the market with new business models because this is the current need. New models prove resourceful when it comes to new value creation, innovative circular economies, and new ecosystems, which lead to overall success. In essence, that is what blockchain technology delivers to startups when they adopt it.Blockchain business modelStartups that focus on old systems are mainly interested in developing and marketing tangible products and services. Contrary to this, startups that take to blockchain technology, have option of having a product/service as part of whatever they are developing. The primary focus, in this case, shifts to a self-sustaining circular economy that runs on tokens or currency they own. It also incorporates the transactional loop of earning and spending tokens within the same ecosystem.Blockchain ownership modelDifferent from the aspect where one acquires preferred shares by buying private equity, which is the case in the traditional model, blockchain technology allows interested parties to obtain shares or tokens that the startup issues. For additional tips on how startups are embracing blockchain, kindly contact us.
Review of Healthcare Startups focused on Blockchain.The revolutionary nature of blockchain technology in storing data and intellectual properties is not limited to the banking and credit card industries, not by a long shot. Health providers and insurers are moving to blockchain platforms aggressively; the inherently safe nature of blockchain creates a secure haven for data as sensitive as medical records and statistics.Legal ramifications of data breaches: apologies don’t work anymore.Medical records by their very nature are private and sensitive. As is medical research and technology. More and more, companies with security breaches and data theft are being held responsible for that data loss, the consequences can be financially devastating.Enter Blockchain.Blockchain is a technology that arose from the Bitcoin dissemination worldwide. While bitcoin is both fascinating and unstable, the real take-away from bitcoin was the system designed to guarantee the security of all bitcoin transactions globally: Blockchain.How does blockchain work?A simple explanation of how blockchain works is that whatever data or information you are storing is sent down a line of thousands (even millions) of nodes. Each separate node has a kernel or piece of the information needed to create the whole. No single node has enough information for a hacker or data breach to make any sense of. Pair with that “security in numbers” concept, the encryption of each node to protocols different from the next, and you have a system guaranteed to be safeHealth companies are sitting up and taking notice.In the years 2016 alone, multiple healthcare companies have started with blockchain as their primary data protection platform.What to take away from blockchain technology?It is an asset to the medical field at every level. Every day we hear of more sensitive data being hacked by by some nation state intent on getting their hands on private information. Companies are now being held accountable for their data losses and breaches. The health industry needs to implement blockchain tech to protect their masses of sensitive data as quickly as possible. Myriad start-ups are responding to that need with blockchain platforms and secure infrastructures.When you are ready to learn more please contact us
Blockchain Expo North America – November 2017 in Santa Clara.As the world of blockchain technology grows exponentially larger, a series of blockchain conferences has emerged for people to meet and share information. This upcoming fall, the Blockchain Expo of North America will be held in Santa Clara, California. The event will be held from November 29th to 30th at the Santa Clara Convention Center near Silicon Valley. Engineers, businesses and interested individuals from the region and around the continent will come to discuss the emerging technology. One of the hot topics of the convention will be health care uses for block chain. It could be a major opportunity for new companies and organizations to be born.The event will feature over 1,500 attendees and 60 speakers doing 20 different sessions. There is an enormous amount of energy around this event and will have multiple areas of interest. Healthcare is one of the largest areas of interest as it is such a massive opportunity and industry.For example, the event organized a prime panel called “Blockchain in the healthcare system”. The two main speakers include Diego Espinoza, CEO of Health Coin and John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health.These two individuals will discuss three main areas. Firstly, they will talk about moving patient data on the block chain. The technology allows new friction free transfer of data that has so far eluded other companies and information technology. This is a huge development for software developers, payment providers, health care providers, doctors and patients. It makes the whole system more seamless which allows doctors to catch symptoms faster or make diagnoses easier.  They also no longer need to fear prescribing medication that conflicts with existing drugs or that the patient is allergic to.Next, they will discuss data sharing including patient privacy and security. This is perhaps the most important concept because blockchain technology can protect patient data and encrypt information with 100% security. It accords with the HIPAA regulation and also leaves the patient feeling safe about the transfer of their sensitive information. Government regulators have already signaled their positive feelings about this technology for that reason. It seems that the security features of the blockchain will help it gain rapid greater acceptance for this sector in the future.Finally, the panel will discuss trial visibility along with automated patient consent platforms. That technology will help scientists improve the speed and viability of drug testing. It will reduce costs and ultimately bring drugs to market quicker at lower prices. Scientists will no longer have to use cumbersome distribution models to find patients in need of their drug trials. Rather, they can use 100% secure digital distribution models to link with consumers, achieve their consent and administer the drugs in partnership with a local health care provider. The end goal is that the price of drug development will drop from hundreds of millions of dollars to perhaps tens of millions or even a few million dollars. That would radically upend the current go to market path for a new drug and cause a revolution in the industry. That could lead to many new breakthrough drugs.While the sponsors and attendees have yet to all be confirmed, the conference promises to have hundreds of individuals interested in the health care market. So more people with interest in this sector will be attending the conference than many free standing blockchain healthcare focused events.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading hub for information about the blockchain technology  to the healthcare industry. The site includes places to learn, exchange information and meet new entrants to the space. It profiles existing growing companies and breakthrough technology. For more information, please contact us.
2017 Distributed: Health – Nashville, TN.Distributed: Health Conference OverviewThe conference targets the healthcare, law and IT services industries. This year’s program provides conference sessions and three key learning opportunities for registrants: a two unit continuing legal education component, a 24-hour hack-a-thon for developers and a code camp. The CLE is open to attorneys and non-attorneys. Its track requires advance registration and costs $199. The hack-a-thon competition’s objective is to build and demonstrate an original blockchain-powered application. The competition offers prizes of more than $10,000. The code camp provides hands-on workshops for all levels of blockchain developers. The camp costs $50 and meets at The Bell Tower from 9:30 am to 5 pm, September 25th. The conference sessions cover four learning tracks:Blockchain for Business, CLE, Internet of Things, Payments.The two-day conference costs $649.Sessions and SpeakersThe conference kicks off with a keynote address from Change Healthcare CEO Neil de Crescenzo on his organization and its objectives. The networking lunch also features a keynote address. Dr. Harold Paz, Executive Vice President & Chief Medical Officer for Aetna will discuss his company’s Blockchain usage. The day closes with a keynote speech from John Sotos, Chief Medical Officer for Intel Health & Life Sciences.The conference features multiple panel sessions. These include:“A New Infrastructure for Healthcare,” combines presentations and discussion from: John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Bryan Smith, Chief Scientist of PokitDok; Miriam Paramore, President of OptimizeRx. “The Future of Payment Models” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development at Cerner Corporation; John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Francois de Brantes, Vice President & Director of the Altarum Center for Payment Innovation and Aaron Symanski, CTO of Change Healthcare. “Blockchain IoT Use Cases: Scalability & Security” with Siva Kannan, VP of Engineering for Gem; Carlos Elena-Lenz, Director of Intelligent Products & Solutions for Cognizant; Frank Ricotta, CEO for BurstIQ. “Introduction to Blockchain: Defining Use Cases” with Andrew Beal, Senior Manager of EY; Jennifer Georgino, Director of Ecosystem Development for Patientory; Brian Behlendorf, Executive Director for The Hyperledger Project; David Houlding, Director of Healthcare Privacy and Security for Intel Health and Life Sciences. “Blockchain & Revenue Cycle Management” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development for Cerner Corporation; Pearson Talbert, President of HealthcareTTU; Kyle Culver, Solution Architect for Humana; Scott Law, Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy, Zotec Partners; Jim Sohr, Chairman of Powered Health. “Clearing the Way for the Internet of Clinical Things” with Jason Goldwater, Senior Director of the National Quality Forum; David Metcalf, Director of the Mixed Emerging Technology Integration Lab at the UCF Institute for Simulation and Training; Kristen Johns, Counsel for Waller; Susan Ramonat, CEO of Spiritus Partners. “Laying a Foundation for Success: State Initiatives in Blockchain” with John Wagster, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Giles Ward, Executive Director for Hashed Health; Kenneth Bradberry, President of BlockChange. “Blockchain: The Individual & the Employer” with Frank Coliano, Operating Partner with The Riverside Company; Micah Winkelspecht, Founder and CEO of Gem; Peter Fuchs, Corporate Strategy for Mercer.WorkshopsThe first afternoon also offers hands-on learning opportunities. A workshop, “Blockchain Use Case Workshop with Optum,” hosted by Mike Jacobs, a Distinguished Engineer with Optum, introduces participants to Blockchain case studies. A live demonstration session, “Demos: Blockchain in Action,” presents technologies from Hashed Health, IBM, PokitDok, and the State of Illinois.CLE Session HighlightsA CLE registrants session, “Healthcare Regulation Meets Blockchain,” examines how Blockchain affects HIPAA compliance, legislative trends and regulatory issues. Panelists include: Caitlin Moon, COO and CDO for Legal Alignment; Larry Bridgesmith, CEO/Founder of Legal Alignment, Adel Elmissiry, CTO for Utilize Health, Jodi Daniel, Partner at Crowell & Moring.A second CLE registrants session, “The Legal Challenges of Token Offerings,” looks at the legal ramifications of token fundraising including securities laws, border limitations and consumer protections. Panelists include: Les Wilkinson, Chief Development Officer for Hashed Health; Gray Sasser, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Jason Epstein, Partner and Co-leader of Technology and Procurement Group for Nelson Mullins; Alan Cohn, Counselor and Strategic Advisor for Steptoe & Johnson LLP.See the agenda for Distributed: Health
2017 Blockchain Conference Washington D.C..As virtual currencies soar past expectations and reach new heights, the interest in Blockchain technology grows. The implications are huge across the board. Diverse sectors are hoping to harness Blockchain technology’s potential to replicate successes seen in the financial services arena.2ND ANNUAL BLOCKCHAIN CONFERENCE WASHINGTON D.C. 2017The Harvard Business Review explains how this potential is already being explored in healthcare as a way to process transactions efficiently and securely. Estonia’s health care system is one such case study. It adopted Blockchain technology in response to a 2007 breach that left patient data vulnerable. This aggressive and innovative response is an example of how the technology can be applied to improve processes and reduce vulnerabilities in healthcare.To help decision-makers learn more about the technology and how it can be applied, the second annual Blockchain Conference in Washington, D.C., is being held July 28, 2017. The one-day event, which takes place at George Washington University, provides an opportunity for leaders in healthcare, government, finance, tech, venture capital, and logistics to meet and discuss Blockchain/DLT technology.It’s billed as a fast-paced conference that includes top speakers and offers attendants networking time to connect with each other. Here’s a review of some of the most important agenda items taking place at the D.C. Blockchain Conference:Where we stand with Blockchain technology todayThe first panel of the day, Blockchain State of Play, looks at the current marketplace and provides an evaluation of how things have changed over the past year to understand what the landscape looks like now, where it’s come from, and where it’s likely headed next.The resurgence (and rise) of virtual currencyA keynote will explore the resurgence of virtual currencies, coins, and token-based systems. Looking at the recent booms in Bitcoin and Ethereum, in particular, this session discusses what has driven prices up and sparked a lot of interest in Blockchain technology.A look at regulations and standardsLater, experts will provide an update on how regulations are impacting digital currency. Currently, innovation and adoption of Blockchain technology are outpacing laws and regulations, but this is likely to change in the near future.An Introduction to Initial coin offerings (ICOs)Learn about this crypto-financing technique, an unregulated method of fundraising for cryptocurrency venture that side-steps traditional capital-raising processes, and what are considered to be the pros and cons of this fast-evolving process.How Blockchain can be used for goodThe second keynote looks at how Blockchain is changing global development programs and explores its potential to be useful in other capacities. Experts agree the Blockchain could ameliorate such grand problems as poverty, hunger, and corruption, but exactly how to get there is still up for debate.Blockchain beyond financial servicesLearn more about how Blockchain technology can be used in capacities other than as a digital currency, such as transparent supply chains, secure transmission of patient data, and records management.Expert predictions for the short-term futureThere have been a lot of exciting developments in Blockchain technology during the past year, but what’s next? Close out the day at the conference by hearing Blockchain experts share their predictions on what’s ahead for this game-changing technology. They will offer an outlook on what to expect from Blockchain technology by 2020.Event organizers anticipate the 2017 conference will build on the success of last year’s inaugural Blockchain Conference in Washington, which had a diverse audience and impressive line-up of speakers. This list included representatives from Microsoft,  IBM, the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer’s Research, GWU, and the Federal Trade Commission.Some of the speakers lined up for this year’s conference include:Luis Carranza, Fintech Founder and CEO Susan Poole, Blockbridge Advisory Founder Tom Plunkett, Oracle Consulting Solutions Director Brendan Blumer, Block.one CEO Jack Shaw, Blockchain Executive Co-Founder and Executive Board MemberEarly adopters and developers of Blockchain technology hail it as the next big revolution in the way we handle transactions. If you want to get ahead of the curve and learn more about HIT Blockchain implementation, contact us.
2017 Pharma Supply Blockchain Forum.This June 6th, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is holding a major conference on blockchain applications for the pharmacy supply chain. This breakthrough event will bring together pharmaceutical professionals, engineers and programmers from around the world.  The even will be held at John’s Hopkins University facilities in Rockville, Maryland. Blockchain is the revolutionary new technology the allows two un parties to transact and store information using a complex mathematical string. It powers the popular digital currency bitcoin. The conference will explore how this technology can support new pharma breakthroughs and operations.IEE Blockchain ForumThe IEEE has over 420,000 members in over 160 countries and is the largest technical professionals group in the world.  They group has specifically taken up the cause of promoting blockchain technology to its members and bringing in new partners such as the pharma industry. This powerful technology could create major advances in health care and create many new jobs for IEEE members.  For that reason, the group is squarely behind this emerging technology.The event will be a one day educational forum going in-depth on the power of blockchain technology. The event will not simply review how the technology works. Instead, it is for people that are already familiar with it and are able to understand the technical details discussed at the conference.The ideal audience and attendees will be specialists that can implement solutions.  That includes managers, researchers, programmers, engineers and other company operations personnel. It could include prospective entrepreneurs but will also include academics, government regulators, corporate workers and even some non-governmental non-profit personnel.  Some investors and non-technical people may want to attend the event to gain further understanding of the technology and its purposes, although the topics will not be primarily geared for them.The first topic is optimizing the supply chain from production to patient. Blockchain may be used to provide more transparency and streamline the logistics process in this case.  Organizers also hope to better understand the restoration of the integrity of the supply chain using blockchain technology.Another topic is maximizing the potential revenue from the information stored on the blockchain. Investors, business people and entrepreneurs will be most interested in this topic. Some potential ideas include providing data on trial results or different compounds with an intuitive database or software system.Event organizers also want presentations on combining other emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and DLTs to optimize the supply chain. Academics, regulators and other innovators might be most interested in this topic.  Further, the event will explore how different partners can harmonize different technologies or standards and work together. The event will hopefully start the process of coordinating on singular standards for the industry.The role of digital identity in the pharma supply chain is another important issue.  As  more health care is delivered and customized to the individual, this question will inevitably become more important.Data governance is another key. What will be the standards to store data and how will it be migrated to the blockchain?  What software will interact with data and how will users analyze the information?Lastly, regulators will speak about how they see blockchain technology and its relation to the pharma industry and supply chain. Their guidance will help focus the efforts of industry and research to pursue government objectives, avoid areas the government discourages and also comply with government demands.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes leading healthcare  blockchain innovation, events and companies employing blockchain technology in the healthcare sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the HIT landscape. For more information, please contact us. A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Healthcare Blockchain Summit in DC.Blockchain technology in healthcare is in its early stages. Many startups are promoting their ideas. Many products are competing for attention. Should health organizations move now or wait? Which standards will last, and which are dead ends? The Healthcare Blockchain Summit will offer a chance to explore the many alternatives.Everyone recognizes that existing approaches do a poor job of sharing personal health data. Security breaches cost healthcare organizations millions of dollars every year. Delays in authorization get in the way of treatment. Making information readily available while keeping it secure requires a new approach. Blockchain technology could provide the answers, automating the authorization process with peer-to-peer technology and cryptography.On March 20 and 21, many industry representatives will gather in the FHI 360 Conference Center in Washington, DC to present and discuss blockchain approaches to health data. Anyone seriously involved in this area should consider attending.Cooperation and standardsThe blockchain future will require widely accepted standards. The aim is to let a patient move data freely from a primary care provider to a lab, a specialty clinic, or a hospital as needed. If they don’t all talk the same language, this won’t be possible. Each startup has its own approach, but they will need to find common ground. One consistent set of standards has to emerge, and everyone will have to adapt their work to it.This still leaves room for many companies to provide parts of the solution. Cooperation and the development of standards will be a major theme of the conference.Government regulations back up the need for interoperability. The Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 requires the adoption by 2023 of an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace the distribution of certain prescription drugs. Manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers will need to adopt standard methods of product identification, tracing, and verification. The blockchain approach may be the best way to meet its requirements.Discussion topicsThe agenda will include speeches and panel discussions with representatives from startups, large companies, educational institutions, and government. Topics will include models for cooperation, business and economic issues, legal concerns, and patient control. Several speakers will look at the ways the financial industry is exploring blockchain. Bitcoin is only the best known of them. “Smart contracts” are important in finance, and they will be necessary to defining information access rights to health data.Current methods of conveying consent to release information are clumsy. Smart contracts not only build that information into the blockchain but enforce it. Their use to establish trust relationships, even among organizations with no prior relationship, will be among the topics on the conference’s agenda.Chairperson Jody Ranck’s scheduled opening remarks will stress the need for cooperation and standards. Other speakers will discuss the business models, the development of an ecosystem, and patient control. Sponsors include T-Systems, Peer Ledger, and Spiritus Partners.The conference and beyondThe optional Post-Summit Workshop will cover issues of designing and implementing pilot projects. Starting at 2:00 PM following the close of the conference, it will address business, engineering and legal issues in creating a blockchain application.The conference and the workshop will offer many chances to learn about the state of the art and make business contacts that will help in ongoing blockchain ventures. Meal breaks and a networking reception will let attendees catch all the events that interest them and still find time to talk with colleagues.The FHI 360 Conference Center is in the downtown Washington area, near Dupont Circle. Group and student discounts are available.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a Supporting Publication for the conference. Come talk with us while you’re there! Contact us if you’d like to learn more about what we’ll be up to.
September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge.As blockchain technology continues to improve and the ecosystem improves, there are more and more events to highlight the successes of the community.  As a distributed system of accounts, blockchain’s unique and virtually uncrackable technology as led to an explosion of applications that can improve the lives of humans around the world.  Although original uses were focused on finance, blockchain healthcare applications continue to grow and improve.  The September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge is one such event that highlights many uses of the technology, including especially applications.The event will be hosted by the National Institute of Health in Maryland on the 26th and 27th of September 2017.  The NIH is calling for people, companies or researches to present papers and new research about how to secure transmit and encode digital health care records. As part of the government’s requirements under Obamacare for hospitals to switch to digital health records, virtually all of the new medical records are stored on computers.  However, no single system or software is being used to transmit that data around the county to different centers about each patient.Fortunately, blockchain technology may be the solution to this key problem of the health care sector.  In fact, some of the paper’s that will be presented at the challenge have already been announced.One paper, produced by MIT researchers called “Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and Data” envisions a secure peer to peer network where patients can freely transmit their records to the medical providers of their choice.  This gives them the power and freedom to control who sees the records without the worry of the information being stolen.  That is because blockchain’s encryption capability makes stealing the data extremely difficult.Another paper by an unaffiliated researcher is titled “Blockchain Technologies: A Whitepaper Discussing how Claims Process can be Improved”. The paper discusses how the insurance claims process can be streamlined and smoothed for all parties.  The insurance and reimbursement process is one of the most infuriating and complex aspects of the healthcare industry for all involved.  Doctors hate the labyrinth of documentation needed and the all to frequent denials of routine procedures.  Insurance companies and the government hate to be overbilled or fraudulently billed by doctors seeking to provide medically unnecessary procedures. While blockchain technologies cannot solve all of the problems, they can make documentation and sharing much easier.  All parties involved will be more accountable as the medical information becomes more transparent, shareable and verifiable.The conference will be held at the National Institute of Standards and Technology which is a division of the National Institute of Health.  The NIST is key to formulating government policies and standards in the medical industry. Participants will have access to hear the latest from policy makers about the government’s attitudes and uses of blockchain technologies.The conference will also include updates on some of the government’s most ambitious blockchain technology endeavors.  For example, the Digital Bazaar Project is a task that could give every citizen a digital profile that is secure and interoperable on blockchain.  That would represent a huge step forward for the health care space in particular but also finance, voting and other record keeping.  The Xcelerate Solutions Project is another blockchain based program that allows disaster relief workers to identify themselves using blockchain technology and gain access to a disaster site for clean up.  FEMA is heavily involved in this project.Lastly, all of the challenge winners will be announced and prizes will be awarded.  Those prizes include grants to continue research.  Winners will also gain additional status in the blockchain community as an expert in government adoption.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a leading site providing the latest events and information about this critical sector.  For more information, please contact us.
Blockchain & Smart Contracts Conference 2017 – Berlin.The Blockchain & Smart Contracts Conference will be held on February 20th-22nd in Berlin and industry leaders from many individual economic sectors will be descending on the city to discuss the technologies’ impact and future in Germany and beyond.Blockchain & Smart ContractsThe event sponsors list alone indicates both how diverse and how extensive interest in blockchain technologies is. Despite initial excitement and proliferation in America, adoption of blockchain technologies in the European private and public sectors is expanding at a far greater rate as sponsorships from both Deutsche Bank and the European Central Bank can attest.The first panel of the conference focuses on the regulatory issues of using blockchain and smart contract technology. Lead by Professor Dr. Nils Urbach of the University of Bayreuth and Fraunhofer FIT, who is an outspoken expert and advocate of blockchain regulatory issues. Klaus Löber, Senior Adviser to the European Central Bank will pick up with a perspective from the public sector, discussing the implications for and future of the regulation of blockchain technologies.Annika Schröder, the Director of Group Innovation at UBS, will discuss her company’s ever-increasing interest in blockchain technologies. UBS has already opened a Blockchain Innovation Lab in London. Furthermore, UBS has been pursuing applications of the infrastructure for nearly two years. This makes UBS one of the earliest major corporate adopters of the blockchain.Other panels will deal mainly with the implications of the blockchain and smart contracts in the finance sector. Additionally, they will explore more novel applications like use for voting and elections in Germany. This event promises to be one of the premier conferences concerning blockchain technology in Europe and beyond. The issues discussed about forming the regulatory backbone for blockchain technologies will undoubtedly have relevance for the healthcare industry.Please contact us for any questions you have.
Blockchain Opportunity Summit 2016 Recap – Smart Contracts.The Blockchain Opportunity Summit was held in Manhattan recently; industry leaders and blockchain visionaries were on hand to discuss the technology’s implications for diverse firms representing many sectors of the economy, from finance to real estate to healthcare. This was represented in the opening panel discussion, which featured Judd Bagley of Overstock.com, Ragnar Lifthrasir, Founder of the International Blockchain Real Estate Association, and Laura Shin of Forbes, one of the most prominent journalists covering blockchain technologies today. The conversation was lively and informative, bringing the industry leaders in attendance up to speed on the importance of recognizing blockchain technologies as relevant to all industries, not simply those in the financial sector.One of the most exciting technologies developed with the underlying blockchain infrastructure is that of smart contracts. The Blockchain Opportunity Summit devoted an entire panel to smart contracts. Ron Quaranta, EVP of Loyyal and Mark Smith, CEO of Symbiont provided their experiences with smart contracts and their utility for any industry, especially those with extensive regulatory oversight. Smart contracts have the potential to drastically reduce the regulatory and overall paperwork burden in healthcare. They provide an exceedingly private and secure environment for the verification of service fulfillment, as well as creating an indestructible record of actions for insurers and clients alike.One of the final panels of note dealt with the current legal environment pertaining to blockchain technologies. Though blockchain implementations like Bitcoin have faced strict legal scrutiny, panelists argued that the increased attention of federal agencies on blockchain technologies adds to the legitimacy and prevalence of the framework, and that it is up to industry leaders now to collaborate with these agencies to develop industry-friendly regulations going forward.
After the Bell Blockchain Technology Conference Review.Business and Blockchain TechnologyThe After the Bell panel discussion occurred Tuesday, December 13th at The Washington Mayfair Hotel in London. This series of conferences, discussions, and lectures is sponsored by The Mankoff Company and many other blockchain technology companies.As blockchain technology moves further from the realm of planning and possibility to actual implementation, businesses are facing new opportunities. Many also face new challenges in developing blockchain technology for individual needs. One of the primary hurdles in developing business-focused blockchain technology is developing plans for specific goals and measurable results. This step is critical to fully demonstrate the utility and value of blockchain to a bottom line. In bringing such an exciting and radical new technology to long-established industries, this panel will advance ideas on how best to promote the integration of blockchain systems and smart contracts. Challenges exist in formidable ways. Many businesses are hesitant to quickly adopt new modes of operating and the few (but growing) members of industry who are aware of blockchain technologies are only aware of the public blockchain networks, like Bitcoin, and not the far more valuable uses of private blockchain networks.Public sector interest in blockchain technologies continues to grow, as evidence by the representation of the British Government on the panel. Carl Massa, the Senior Technology adviser for the Department for Culture, Media & Sport will be providing views on his experiences with integrating blockchain technologies into government services.Another topic of discussion will concern security, a top issue for any industry. Calogero Scibetta, member of Operations at the firm Everledger will draw on his company’s experience of managing transaction histories from diverse sources of data with blockchain networks. Everledger’s system has been implemented for managing insurance verification, a key concern for many healthcare professionals.
Pharma Blockchain Bootcamp: Conference Recap.Pharma Blockchain Bootcamp was an attempt to summarize ideas by various Pharmaceutical and data management companies over the uses of blockchain technology. Much of the technology is still new and not fully understood by the industry. The conference (sponsored by DisruptiveRx) started with an outline of what blockchain technology is and where it has been successful.Problem and SolutionOrganized around the idea of patient centered control, blockchain technology is seen (by some) as a way for individuals to control their own healthcare needs by having their medical data stored digitally. This solves the problem of paper records being mailed to and from hospitals and the possibility of loss and wait time. Companies like Factom Inc. created a biometric id verification for patient recognition that ensures privacy for the individual (another big problem with paper records).ComplianceThe technology could have applications for meeting the Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 according to Dr. Gilot (a speaker) of Blockchain Health. The idea is to track the drug from manufacture to purchase passing every regulatory hurdle and signature through the process. Having a software like blockchain that the industry agrees to share data through could make regulatory burdens much easier. Most of the proposals require the health care industry to sign on to the idea of digital records for patients.SummaryThe conference was the first of its kind for the Pharmaceutical Industry that focused exclusively on blockchain technology. Ideas for Pharma applications and web security companies are working on future trends for the health care industry. Understanding blockchain will be important when the new US Congress convenes in January and decides what to do about the Affordable Care Act.Review conference details: DisruptiveRx – PHARMA BLOCKCHAIN BOOTCAMP
What to expect at next year’s APAC Blockchain Conference.Next spring, technologists, business process experts, and forward-thinking industry leaders from around the world will convene at the University of Technology Sydney for the Asia-Pacific (APAC) Blockchain Conference 2017. Developed in partnership with the Australian Digital Currency Commerce Association (ADCCA), this two-day event aims to “look beyond the hype” of blockchain technology and to focus instead on real opportunities for cost-saving implementations across a broad array of industries. An impressively diverse panel of experts will weigh in, not only on the disruptive potential for blockchain technologies to improve business processes, but also on the various obstacles that remain to be overcome before widespread adoption and realistic implementation can begin.Although this conference is not specifically focused on the healthcare sector, there are a number of things on the agenda to be excited about for those interested in healthcare applications of blockchain technology. The first day of the conference is a plenary session in which panelists and keynote speakers will address such topics as:The latest real-world applications of smart contracts, highlighting those that move beyond mere regulatory compliance, product tracing, and service management. Design challenges currently hindering widespread blockchain adoption, including network integrity, distributed power, security, and rights preservation. The emerging need for skilled workers to make sure organizations remain competitive in the coming age of blockchain disruption.Ways blockchain technology may reshape local and global economic markets and the way private industry responds to the new contours of supply and demand in a world of distributed process automation. The regulatory framework necessary for organizations to embrace blockchain solutions and the responsibility of corporate entities to ensure adequate internal controls over open source technologies to reduce risk exposure in highly regulated industries.On day two, there will be two separate streaming sessions offered, and participants will have their choice of which to attend. Stream 1 focuses on banking and financial applications, while Stream 2–the one more likely to appeal to healthcare organizations–focuses on government, smart contracts, and industry applications. There are a number of topics in this latter stream that sound promising:Blockchain solutions for verifying and storing medical records and proving identities. Real-world security and anti-fraud applications, including some that may be relevant to regulatory compliance in healthcare services for protecting sensitive patient data. The potential for distributed data processing to reduce or eliminate human links in organizational structures–including, presumably, in healthcare organizations and those they do business with, such as insurance companies and government oversight agencies.Of course, we’ll be monitoring the conference proceedings with great interest, so be sure to stay in touch. Meanwhile, those interested in attending in person can find all the registration details here.
BlockCon Conference Review: Singapore 2017.The first global Blockchain (BlockCon 2017) event takes place in Singapore on March 28 & 29 at Marina Bay Sands. Blockchains are public networks where transactions are recorded and accessible to all parties for verification purposes. The possibilities for use across an array of business applications are endless. These conferences are an effort to link some of the various parts of industry where Blockchains can be immediately useful. Also, speakers take the opportunity to educate groups on the direction of the technology.The event will feature live demonstrations and lectures on real applications for industries. Fintech was one of the first sectors to embrace new methods for international buying and selling through Blockchain innovations. Growing enthusiasm for the technology has forced other industries to consider the potential. BlockCon Conference 2017 will see representatives from healthcare and finance to entrepreneurs and coders.The event expects to have over 60 speakers and 70 sponsors. Various startup tech companies and individual entrepreneurs submitted working papers and opened up registration for new concept proposals. One unique element of BlockCon 2017 is the ‘proof of concept’ portion that allows companies to share their tested ideas.Some of the highlighted items for the event will focus on authentication, fraud, smart contracts, self-executing contracts, and identity. Some of the attendees will focus on the regulation side of things since compliance is always a cost issue for anyone interested in putting in new programs.Over 1,000 global innovators from various backgrounds and schools of thought will share diverse ideas from the growing universe of Blockchain technology. Make plans to attend. Check out our website for more details.Blockcon 2017 Singapore AgendaWhat to expect at next year’s APAC Blockchain Conference
Moscow Blockchain and Bitcoin Conference.Recently, Russia has made technology news headlines, so Moscow’s Blockchain Conference, which kicked off November 10, fell in perfect time. Drawing crypto experts and leading industry professionals from all over, the second Moscow conference held this year was at times, “overcrowded beyond capacity” according to one reporter in attendance. Dozens of technology based representatives flocked to what has been hailed as “one of the biggest industry events in Eastern Europe”. Other news reported the Russia Bitcoin and Blockchain conference climate as “favorable” and several sources noted the impressive line up of speakers and registrants, leading to a heavy turnout despite cloudy weather.Among those expected, Fintech sector, with IBM, QIWI, Microsoft and Sberbank, were on the list. The conference presenters covered such topics as crypto regulations, financial tools, assets, industry challenges and various current projects. This conference held particular interest in part due to Russia’s questionably shaky stance on the issues surrounding digital currency and relevant technologies. Russia, and Moscow in particular, seemingly has created the location as a recognized space among bitcoin and blockchain world leaders, standing with other front-liners heading the industry’s future efforts.The conference, which had several renowned speakers over its course, opened November 10th with Tone Vays, a well-known blockchain proponent off of Wall Street. Bitfury’s product director was also among the opening acts, delving into the public and private relationship correlation. Overall, the event received positive, albeit scarce, feedback and contributors can expect a likely continuation of Russian influence in what’s to come. This year’s conferences lend to the establishment of Russia’s credibility within the sector and opens the door to furthering widespread participation in this highly charged area of technology based careers and services.Event details:  TrusTech – The Event Dedicated to Trust Based Technologies
A Recap of The TRUSTECH Conference.The three-day conference will take place at the Palais des Festivals, Cannes from November 29th to December 1st. Here is a further recap of the TRUSTECH ConferenceThe AttendeesEighteen thousand people will attend the conference. Three quarters of the people will be international visitors, representing 130 different countries. The conference organizers estimate that over half of the attendees (53%) are Chief Exective Officers. Meanwhile, 17% are high level executives and engineers. Project Managers and Product Managers will make up 16% of the conference attendees.The ExhibitorsAbout 400 exhibitors will be at the event. Eight out of ten of the exhibitors will be international.The Keynote SpeakersThe TRUSTECH Conference will have thirteen key-note speakers. J.B. Straubel, the Co-Founder and CTO of Tesla Motors, and Adrian Ludwig the Director of Engineering at Google are some of the notable speakers.About the TRUSTECH ConferenceThe conference offers attendees the perfect opportunity to network and learn more about the industry during the presentations. The prominent guest speakers at the TRUSTECH conference have pivotal roles in the identification, payment, and connection industry.Attendees can also browse the exhibit booths to learn more about innovative technologies that are disrupting the industry. For example, the TRUSTECH CONFEX booth will showcase the newest technology that collects people’s payment and identification information.Other exhibitors will include companies that offer telecommunications and cloud services, consultants, financial institutions, merchants, and equipment manufacturers.Please contact us for more information about the event.
Distributed: Health Inaugural Blockchain Conference for the Healthcare Industry.On October 3rd, technology and healthcare industry leaders converged in Nashville, Tennessee for Distributed Health’s first ever Healthcare Blockchain Conference. The event drew worldwide attention and offered cutting edge insights regarding the breakthrough blockchain trend in healthcare. The conference included an impressive lineup of keynote speakers, a 24 hour blockchain solution competition that unloaded over $30,000 in prize payouts, a Blockchain 101 course, and professional networking opportunities for those in attendance. The event appropriately took place in heart of Nashville, Tennessee, a world-renowned leader in the healthcare industry and home to 18 publicly traded companies.Global Healthcare Blockchain ConferenceThe event has been covered by several leading publications and media outlets and has received recognition for its premiere presentation of issues  to block chain in healthcare. Productive Edge released an article directly following the event based on the conference’s performance offering encouragement to healthcare-technology professionals and hopefuls. Their publication listed observations that included establishing the credibility of the industry and the urgency for knowledgeable blockchain technologists needed to balance the supply and demand scale.Blockchain in Healthcare HackathonThe conference also held great rewards for up and coming developers who were awarded for their project submissions in the 24 hour Hackathon that was held October 1st-2nd. Veripharm took first place in the competition, winning $12,500 in BTC for their pharmaceutical supply accountability tracking blockchain application. HealthySELFIE, an eHealth wallet app, won $8,500 in travel, while others won lesser prize packages. Complete project submissions from the Hackathon have been posted by Distributed: Health online, where visitors can connect with applicants and support their favorites.Industry professionals can look forward to more healthcare relevant blockchain events, conferences and contests to take place in the future as this trend continues to take off and create interest.
Healthureum Aims to Cut Healthcare Costs with Smart Contracts.Healthureum’s aims include these:To use the Ethereum blockchain and smart contracts to increase the interoperability and efficiency of healthcare services. To incorporate a token-based payment system, which will also be used to reward referrals and second opinions. To give patients ownership of and access to their medical data. To secure patient data cryptographically. To bring “S3” (standardization, scalability, and social responsibility) to healthcare services.Simplifying paymentThe most distinctive feature of Healthureum’s plan is the integration of payment tokens and healthcare information in the same system. WELL also uses tokens for payment between healthcare providers, but the token system is its primary focus.Healthureum aims at a strong set of healthcare information features as well as a payment system in a single blockchain. It aims at providing a “complete supporting ecosystem” for providers, not just a method of small-scale payments. A major aim of the token system is to facilitate cross-border services by making payment direct, avoiding international processing fees and currency conversions.The token is called the Healthureum, abbreviated HHEM. The HHEM will be the exclusive means of payment within the network. A Token Generation Event (TGE) ran in December 2017 to seed the system. It excluded a number of countries, among them the United States, Japan, and China.Making health data available and secureParticipating patients will have their personal, medical, and emergency data all stored in encrypted form on a single platform. Large data files, such as high-resolution images, would make the blockchain unmanageably large, so they will be stored elsewhere, with access through encrypted links.The system uses permission layers to control access, so that participants can read only the information that they’re authorized for. It promises instant access, so that the information is available in emergencies. Specialists will be allowed to see a subset of the patient’s data in order to provide a second opinion.Naturally, patients want to know that the people treating them and getting referrals are qualified. This can be an issue if they have a medical emergency in an unfamiliar place. Healthureum states that it will confirm that all providers in its network are legally qualified. The patient will be able to see a referred doctor’s credentials through the blockchain.Medical researchSome features of Healthureum aim at facilitating medical research. Patients who aren’t actively participating in medical trials can contribute their anonymized medical data. When they do this, they’re granting permission only for research purposes. Fraud in medical trials is a concern, since there can be financial incentives to make a treatment appear more successful than it was. Since the blockchain is safe against tampering, it guards against falsification of data.Future plansWhere is Healthureum going from here? In 2018, it plans to work with two pilot hospitals to implement and test its standardized data framework. It will test the alpha and beta versions of its data systematization application and gather data and credentials for doctors in the test program.After making any necessary fixes to the code and confirming regulatory compliance, the program will expand to five hospitals, adding the initial implementation of referrals and consultation. In 2019 it plans to add philanthropic activities and research programs.The biggest challenge which any healthcare blockchain faces is reaching a critical mass of adoption. To be useful to patients, it has to give them access to a large number of facilities and doctors. Healthureum is staking its hopes on the combination of flexible, secure information and a payment system in the same blockchain. If enough facilities adopt it, it could be a success.If you’re looking to learn more about blockchain developments for healthcare, contact us to become part of the conversation.
Healthbase Revolutionizes Healthcare Research Through Blockchain.
Luna DNA, a Blockchain-Funded Community Genomic Project.Enter Luna DNA, another interesting turn in the healthcare industry.What is Luna DNA?Luna DNA is “a genomic and medical research database powered by blockchain.” Luna DNA takes a community-based approach to gathering and sharing medical data. Traditional medicine often takes samples and other information while giving little back, a state of affairs heavily criticized for example in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, where despite having their mother’s cells used throughout modern medicine, the children and other relatives received nothing in return. While medical laws try to protect individuals from unwanted medical procedures and breaches of privacy, these laws can also act against the interests of people, giving no or little incentive to contribute their DNA and medical information. Luna DNA strives to undo this unbalance by giving community members Luna Coins, digital currency, in exchange for sharing their information. This give and take system then entitles recipients to receive assistance information in turn.Roots in Genomic ResearchLuna DNA has its roots in genomic research, where useful information often depends on a cross-section of samples. Without samples to compare, genomic research quickly becomes irrelevant, even impossible. CEO and Co-Founder Bob Kain and President and Co-Founder Dawn Barry both have roots in Illumina, a global genomics company working in everything from healthcare to agriculture. While working at Illumina and in other industry- positions, Barry and Kain saw firsthand the benefits of genomics together with the challenges facing researchers and consumers alike. They wanted to find some way to incentivize individuals to share their information, because the more information available, the better the research results. The better the research results, the more consumers should be able to expect in return. Thus, Luna DNA was born.Why Blockchain?Cryptocurrency like Bitcoin and Luna DNA’s Luna Coins represent a new way to hold and keep data secure. In the case of Luna Coins, the community invests, members of community hold their coins, and this information is available to all parties, keeping business transparent while keeping each individual member’s information secure. In many ways, a business like Luna DNA is a prime example of when and why cryptocurrency is so important. You want everyone (at least everyone in the community) to help guard your data, so that it will be impossible for someone to counterfeit or change what you have stored in your ledger. At the same time, you want the details including your ownership to be kept private via privileged encryption, so that not just anyone can see the details.Considering the stated aim of Luna DNA, to hold highly personal information in a shared database where everyone benefits in a mutually understood way, blockchain is the perfect technology partner for this mission. Luna DNA successfully raised $2 million dollars in ICO capital last year. On a practical level as well as a symbolic one, blockchain works for this business.Blockchain and the Future of HealthcareLooking ahead to the future of Luna DNA, of Luna Coins, and blockchain tech in general, one can see a trend developing, a trend toward decentralized funding and greater community involvement on all levels. As healthcare continues to become more consumer-driven, with secure medical records access online and on-demand, funding and investing will have to evolve keep up. Only time will tell, of course, but savvy companies and savvy investors will do well to pay attention these and other opportunities as they arise. Times are definitely changing.For more information about blockchain funding in the healthcare industry, contact us today.
VitalHub – blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider for mental health.Toronto, Ontario-based VitalHub is a blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider. Primarily serving mental health and long-term care communities, VitalHub’s software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform is designed to interconnect existing healthcare systems and data repositories through secure interoperability solutions. In 2017, VitalHub acquired EHR-provider HI Next (owner of TREAT), and healthcare platform-provider B Sharp. Together these acquisitions significantly expanded VitalHub’s offering and customer base. On January 11th, 2018, the company announced that it was officially entering the blockchain-based healthcare technology marketplace with plans to focus on blockchain-powered solutions that bring greater interoperability to the healthcare ecosystem.TechnologyVitalHub maintains that the rapidly growing blockchain-based IT solution marketplace presents a unique opportunity for properly positioned healthcare solution providers. As blockchain-powered platforms begin to reshape the healthcare IT landscape in 2018, VitalHub argues that it has four complementary strengths that position it for success in the blockchain-based healthcare solution marketplace: extensive in-house expertise; a management team seasoned in scaling global healthcare businesses; a large pre-existing customer base; and an IT team highly experienced in building innovative healthcare applications. As VitalHub enters the blockchain-based solution marketplace, it is positioning itself as a “Blockchain as a Service (BaaS)” provider addressing the challenge of interoperability “across the continuum of care.”Partnerships and acquisitionsVitalHub plans to seek partnerships with “global consulting groups” to help spread blockchain-based solutions throughout the global healthcare sector. In addition to these strategic partnerships, VitalHub aims to significantly accelerate its growth through mergers and acquisitions, a process that is already “successfully underway.” On March 24, 2017, VitalHub announced its intention to acquire two healthcare IT companies: HI Next and B Sharp Technologies. On October 5th, 2017, VitalHub further announced that it had finalized the B Sharp acquisition; and on December 22nd, 2017, VitalHub announced a “definitive agreement” to acquire HI Next.HI NextHI Next is the owner of TREAT, a fully hosted, web-based EHR and healthcare coordination platform used by more than 80 healthcare providers in North America. The TREAT integrated solution includes “over 100 clinical assessment tools” spanning a wide range of sectors including primary care, mental and behavioral health, and community care.B Sharp TechnologiesToronto-based B Sharp Technologies, founded in 1998, primarily provides EHR, clinical documentation and case management solutions for health, community care and social services organizations. Their solutions specifically address mental health, cardiology, specialty care, “complex continuing care,” long term care and pharmacy. In addition to their solutions, B Sharp provides business consulting and custom development services. B Sharp has more than 40 customers across Canada.TeamThe VitalHub executive team includes President and CEO Dan Matlow, who formerly held the same executive leadership position at Medworxx Solution Inc., a patient-throughput management solution provider co-founded by VitalHub’s VP of Mobile Technology, Andre Vandenberk. VitalHub’s CFO and Executive VP Brian Goffenberg, also from Medworxx, previously held financial management positions at Philips Lifeline, DWL Inc. and Delrina Corp. Peter Catford, HI Next Principal, is joining VitalHub as Chief Strategist.CompanyVitalHub, publicly traded as VHI on the TSX Venture Exchange, first established itself as a technology platform for developing mobile health (mHealth) solutions. The company maintains that their “platform provides the control, security, privacy and consistency essential in the healthcare industry.” With applications already ranging from clinical care to medical research, the mHealth platform provider is now expanding into blockchain-based solutions. According to the VitalHub team, a lack of interoperability among healthcare stakeholders has been stifling progress across the entire healthcare ecosystem. In response, VitalHub plans to develop and sell blockchain-powered interoperability solutions. VitalHub’s long-term strategic mission is to secure a global leadership position among blockchain-based healthcare solution providers. They aim to grow rapidly through mergers and acquistions, while selling innovative blockchain-based healthcare solutions to their existing customer base.To learn more about blockchain-based healthcare initiatives, startups, POCs and ICOs, contact us.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
CoverUS helps pay for your health insurance by using blockchain technology to securely broker your health data.CoverUS (pronounced “cover us”) is a blockchain-based, pre-launch healthcare startup that plans to reward its members with cryptocurrency in exchange for the right to broker their healthcare data. The startup won the Blockchain for Social Impact Hackathon in the Financial Inclusion category in November, and was featured in a FastCompany article earlier this month. Although no date is set for their ICO, CoverUS plans to hold a crowd sale of their utility token in 2018.The CoverUS missionCofounder and CEO Christopher Sealey argues that there are two problems in healthcare that CoverUS is directly addressing: one moral and one practical. The moral problem is that patients “should own their own data,” rather than be forced to sit back helplessly as companies buy and sell it. The practical problem is that a patient’s EHR does not tell the whole story of their health status, which requires the patient’s input. CEO Sealey believes that CoverUS’s solution can help solve both of these problems, while significantly reducing the patient’s healthcare costs in the process.The CoverUS appAt the center of the CoverUS strategy is a subscription-based mobile app. New users simply download and interact with the app, which stores their health data on their smartphone and serves as their digital wallet.The 21st Century Cures ActTo provide patients with quick access to their EHRs through the CoverUS mobile app, the company is taking advantage of a particular law within the federal 21st Century Cures Act, which mandates that as of January 1st, 2018, electronic healthcare systems in the U.S. must provide intuitive, open APIs that allow patients to easily access their EHRs.The blockchain: balancing privacy and sharingAccording to the CoverUS team, storing patient health data on the blockchain is necessary for two reasons: to keep the patient in the center of the decision-making surrounding third-party access to their data, and to achieve a balance between data-privacy and data-sharing.CoverCoinEssentially serving as a health data broker, CoverUS rewards patient-subscribers that allow the company to share their health data. The rewards come in the form of the company’s B2C digital currency: CoverCoin. CoverUS maintains that managing your CoverCoin account will be as simple as managing a frequent flyer rewards account. The app will prominently display the patient-subscriber’s total CoverCoin in their digital wallet, along with a list of recent activities that serve as credits and debits to their account. The mobile app prototype that the CoverUS team uses as an example shows a patient with a credit of “+75” for sharing their health data via a “Family Membership Survey” and a debit of “-120” for using their CoverCoin to pay for “Gym Membership Dues.” Two prominent buttons (Spend and Earn) lead the user-patient into the two complementary sides of the app.Tokens for healthcareAccording to CoverUS team, in order to incentivize healthy living, CoverCoin can only be redeemed for health- expenses. Cofounder Andrew Hoppin argues that if the company were to pay patients in cash, and they were to “spend that money on candy and cigarettes,” it would defeat the “virtuous cycle” of healthy living that CoverUS aims to reinforce.The CoverCoin wallet versus an HSAPatients can use the CoverCoin in their digital wallets to pay for many of the same health- expenses that health savings accounts (HSAs) provide for. However, the CoverUS team argues that their digital wallet is more flexible than a health savings account (HSA). Patients can redeem their tokens for a wider range of health- services and activities, including rides to a doctor or dentist appointment; childcare during a hospital stay; and gym memberships.Community sharingThere is also a community dimension to the CoverUS rewards program. By joining CoverUS, patients will also join the CoverUS subscriber community, and will learn about the health goals and financial struggles of other community members. If they wish, patients can transfer some of their rewards to other community members. They can also help other patients further their health- goals in non-financial ways and earn further CoverUS rewards in the process.Initial coin offeringAlthough CoverUS has not yet set a date for their ICO, cofounder and CEO Sealey told FastCompany that the startup plans to raise funds for their launch through a crowd sale of the company’s B2B utility token in 2018.For more information on healthcare startups utilizing the blockchain, contact us.
IncentHealth Leverages Chat Bots and Ethereum Blockchain to Incentivize Healthy Habits for the Underserved.Blockchain Startup Review: IncentHealthAs their name suggests, IncentHealth is a healthcare startup that aims to create incentives for healthy living. In an effort to help end healthcare inequality, the company will focus its blockchain-based platform and cyptocurrency based incentives on helping underserved groups reach critical health milestones. Their pilot project is a smoking cessation app and program that relies on a collaborative effort between patients, their support networks and their doctors.Platform and programAlthough the healthcare startup has not shared detailed specifics on their Ethereum-based blockchain platform, they do emphasize that the smart-contract powered platform will draw upon “lessons learned from clinical trials” on the efficacy of health incentives. The backbone of the smoking cessation program is a series of milestones, corresponding to health goals, that the patient must meet on their way to the larger goal of successful quitting smoking. Upon achieving each health-goal milestone, the IncentHealth program rewards the patient with a specific quantity of digital currency. The program will make use of predictive analytics to gauge when to make changes to the incentives awarded.IncentHealth digital assistantOne of the tools at the center of IncentHealth’s pilot program is a chat bot that keeps in close touch with the patient throughout their struggle to quit smoking. The IncentHealth chat bot is programmed to reach out regularly to the patient, inviting them to update their progress through quick surveys. It also arranges for them to talk to a member of the patient’s “care team” as needed. In the company’s chat bot demo, the IncentHealth chat bot reaches out to the patient after a stressful day at work. The chat bot asks the patient to rate their level of craving (for a cigarette) that day on a scale of 1 to 10. When the patient answers “9”, a more in-depth conversation ensues. When the chat bot learns that the patient has had a cigarette that day, the chat bot asks the patient to identify which, if any, of the most common triggers (peer pressure, stress at work, or withdrawal symptoms) led the patient to smoke. Upon learning that the trigger was work stress, the chat bot shares a link to a resource “about getting to a smoke free environment” to help the patient push through their stumbling block.User personasIncentHealth has made their exploratory user profiles, a common stage in the modern design process, public. Of their five user profiles, three are patients, one is a doctor and one is a health innovation director. The patients and doctors, such as “female smoker [who] desires a better way to quit” and “physician [who] wants to explore new smoking cessation models” play complementary roles in the IncentHealth smoking cessation program. When the smoker visits their doctor looking for help in their struggle to quit smoking, the doctor recommends that they try IncentHealth’s pilot program. When the patient accepts, the doctor logs into IncentHealth, chooses a form of payment (e.g. “CareGiver/ins support donate incentive program”), initiates the program and sends the patient a link to get started.Health directors, on the other hand, follow another process. The company’s director persona, a “health innovation director passionate about new incentive programs,” is looking for an affordable, innovative smoking cessation program to implement in her organization. She has chosen IncentHealth’s pilot program. After logging into the dashboard at IncentHealth.io, she reviews the worklists and performance reports associated with her doctors’ current smoking-cessation patients. She then exports the statistics, along with a summary of patient funding, to present at her next board meeting.Team and futureIncentHealth’s small team of five includes co-founder Daniel Schott, MBA, who CoinDesk featured in a recent article on U.S. blockchain-based healthcare startups, such as Gem Health and IncentHealth, looking outside the United States as they explore projects and partners. Schott explained that IncentHealth is finding the current U.S. health industry excessively restrictive and resistant to change. Consequently, IncentHealth is “looking to Canada” as a more welcome environment to engage in initial partnerships and prototype development.To learn more about healthcare startups leveraging blockchain technology, contact us.
Universal Health Coin –  anonymous, token-based healthcare finance system.Augusta, Georgia-based Universal Health Coin (UHC) is a pre-launch startup building a blockchain-powered utility designed to provide a fair-payment platform for healthcare services. The AI-enhanced system will have UHC members fill their digital UHC Wallets once a month with cryptocurrency that will in turn pay their future healthcare costs. The UHC team argues that their system will cut healthcare costs for members by as much as 55%. Prior to their ICO in March, they are offering pre-purchases of UHC at a discount.+The missionUHC argues that there are two primary problems that drive up the cost of healthcare to new heights every year. First, there is an over-abundance of bureaucratic, administrative intermediaries standing in between the patient and the provider. In fact, UHC claims that 40% of healthcare costs in the U.S. are due to a combination of redundancies and bureaucratic/administrative record-keeping. Second, there is little to no free market for healthcare services, which leads to inflated healthcare costs that have reached an average of more than $10,000 per person in the U.S. in recent years.UHC maintains that their platform is a solution to the dual-problem of beauracratic inefficiency and healthcare-cost inflation. By creating a direct connection between patient and provider, the company aims to eliminate the costs associated with third-party intermediaries. Further, the team argues that their distributed, decentralized, blockchain-based payment system will help lead to a freer healthcare market that will curb inflationary costs.The processEach UHC member pays a monthly contribution toward their healthcare costs. The system converts their contribution into Universal Health Coin; stores the transaction as a block; encrypts the member’s identity; and sends the block to the UHC network for validation. Once validated, the block becomes an immutable record in the blockchain and the contribution appears in the member’s UHC Wallet. The wallet’s value is tied to the NEO token’s price.Upon visiting a health provider, the provider uses the UHC card or app to confirm the member’s capacity to pay. After providing the healthcare service to the patient, the provider updates the UHC block with information and notes on the patient’s visit. The system then encrypts the patient’s data and transmits it to the UHC network, which validates the transaction and adds it to the blockchain. Finally, the UHC network releases the member’s cash payment to the provider’s payment system.Provider adoptionThe success of UHC rests largely on the adoption of their payment utility by providers. The network of providers using the UHC card/app and accepting UHC payments will need to grow to the point that it represents a significant percentage of the healthcare provider ecosystem as a whole. Otherwise, patients will suffer from too few options to choose from and will likely phase out usage of the UHC utility.TeamChairman, CEO and co-founder Courtney P. Jones was also the co-founder of FindWhat, one of the early adopters of the PPC search model later popularized by Google. Courtney P. Jones argues that just as the Internet served as a platform for entirely new business models, such as PPC search, so will the blockchain.President, COO and co-founder Dr. Gordon Jones has two decades of experience working in healthcare cost and information management, and has spearheaded several healthcare finance apps.The two co-founders are joined by four others to round out the six-person UHC team. The greater group includes six advisors, three “expert mentors,” and three consultants.Token saleUHC is currently offering $5M of UHC pre-purchases to future UHC members. For the first $1M sold, they are offering a discount of 80 percent. The discount then drops through a series of tiers as more tokens are sold. The company allows pre-payments through a variety of popular cryptocurrencies: Neo, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Dash and Litecoin. The official token sale is set to take place on March 1st, 2018.To learn more about blockchain-powered healthcare startups, contact us.
Can Bitcoin Be Useful For Healthcare Costs and a Health Savings Account?.It’s become quite clear that the blockchain is going to be a very useful technology in the healthcare system. Often thought of as the truly impactful aspect of the emergence of Bitcoin, the blockchain allows for simplified record-keeping, transactions, and communication – and it may well be that we’re only just scratching the surface of its utility. In healthcare and elsewhere, people have been coming up with fascinating and useful twists on the blockchain for the last few years, and there’s no indication that innovation is slowing down. The possibilities are endless.Healthcare costs and you health savings accountBut while the blockchain is undeniably useful in this industry, can the currency for which it was initially developed serve any purpose? Can Bitcoins be useful in relation to healthcare?This may sound like an odd question, given how significant healthcare costs are, and how formal the payments tend to be. At first thought, it may seem like an industry in which Bitcoin usage just isn’t necessary or practical. That said, however, we have seen the leading cryptocurrency making its way into a few industries specifically with regard to making payments safely and securely.The first example that comes to mind is PayPal, which has partnered with a popular Bitcoin exchange to allow users to sell Bitcoin and cash out to their PayPal accounts. That basically means they can finance PayPal accounts through Bitcoin, partnering two types of digital transaction that exist for purposes of safety and security. PayPal is essentially meant to be a mode of online payment for which personal information does not need to be provided in individual transactions; Bitcoin is meant to be entirely anonymous, and therefore entirely safe. The partnership essentially compounds the feelings of security that Bitcoin and PayPal users typically feel.The second example actually involves the same two services, but specifically relates to online gaming. It is perhaps no surprise to hear that online casino platforms started accepting PayPal as a deposit and withdrawal method some time ago (for the same reasons of safety and security mentioned above). Going by the first example that means that some could be using Bitcoin to funnel money into these kinds of deposits. But we’ve also begun to see some similar platforms accepting Bitcoin payments directly – as a safe, efficient, and reliable means of payment.Clearly, a pattern is beginning to emerge. While Bitcoin is also useful for a lot of more casual purchases, such as those at online retail shops, some of the biggest adoptions of its use have been in industries where financial security is paramount. This could certainly be applied to healthcare, not because anonymity is particularly important, but because payments need to be made on time, and can be steep in nature.Paying for medicine and treatments, particularly when they may not be fully covered by insurance, can be a very significant hurdle. And complications, either with payments or with procuring treatment, can be devastating. The idea of having a reliable, digital means of paying for these things, in addition to a blockchain that records the transaction indisputably, will undoubtedly appeal to many patients. For that matter, it may benefit hospitals and pharmacies as well, as it could conceivably cut down on issues in which patients or those close to them may attempt to abuse prescriptions and get more than they should.It could also become easy and normal for people with Health Savings Accounts to fund those accounts via Bitcoin. We’ve already seen articles about adding Bitcoins to retirement funds, and the higher the price of the cryptocurrency soars, the more valuable this idea becomes. Now, an HSA doesn’t work the same way, in that it’s meant to be used rather than saved. But account values do tend to roll over from one year to the next, and some may like the idea of funding these accounts with Bitcoins in the hopes that they’ll appreciate, and thus lessen the need for further payments the next year.To be clear, these practices – buying medication or funding HSA accounts via Bitcoin – are not normal or even necessarily possible yet. But the way we’ve seen Bitcoin adopted in other industries in which safety, security, and reliability are particularly important, it will be interesting to see if the cryptocurrency can take hold in healthcare.
An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to Blockchain.An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to BlockchainThe internet is an anonymous place, and that anonymity makes things like buying good or procuring services from across borders and seas quite easy. Unfortunately, the same anonymity also makes it incredibly difficult to keep a record of the transaction that is not nebulous. Thanks to a new system derived from Cloud Computing, much similar to Cryptocurrencies themselves, that is set to change.This technology is called Blockchain. And it follows a pretty simple scheme to get a retrievable, non-alterable account of all your online transactions via cryptocurrencies available for record.When you transfer a sum of money via Bitcoin, Ethereum or another cryptocurrency to someone else, the transaction is recorded in a block of data. This block cannot be altered or tampered with, which is the base of the transparency of the system. The data does not use your real world identity either, if that’s what you prefer. The data is thus certain and definitive, yet respectful of privacy.This block of data is then stored in folders. Several copies of this data are stored on multiple devices, giving rise to a chain-like structure if you trace the path of the information. This is what earns the system the name Blockchain. The chain helps ensure there are multiple copies of the data available, so that even if one device is inaccessible at any point of time, the data is still available. The data is reliable since the same can be verified across the links in the chain.What’s more, the makers of the system have even figured a way to reward members of the chain monetarily. This sum can be treated as compensation for the CPU resources and electric power consumed in the process.Blockchains have a whole other dimension where we may soon see them contribute significantly. One such unlikely sphere is voting. As vital as it is to any true democracy, voting and counting fraud is a reality that many budding as well as established democracies struggle with. Blockchain based online voting systems may bring a welcome shift in trends towards a more transparent and reliable system of representation, eliminating counterfeit votes as well as ballot stuffing.The system can also benefit systems where booking services from the government may be involved, since it can eliminate bookies and fake representations as well as sale of anything from train tickets to contracts in the black market.Corporates like Walmart too are waking up to the benefits this system could bring to them. Blockchain has the potential to be the inventory management tool the world has been lacking all this while, bringing us an easy way to order and sell raw material as well as finished product with every minute movement on the market and its trends. It could be the next market revolution after share trading! Isn’t that something?Author Bio: Stacy Miller has been blogging ever since she was in high school. Her love for technology and disdain for generic Hollywood movies has only grown over the years. You can find more of her writing on Techiespad.com
Umbrella Coin – Automating Insurance Payouts with Smart Contracts.The market for alternative coins has been growing at a dizzying rate. Many ICOs (Initial Coin Offerings) now raise tens of millions or even hundreds of millions of dollar equivalent value in their tokens. Healthcare is one area where blockchain technology is seeing major ICO growth.Umbrella Coin has produced a coin called UMC which is built on the Ethereum protocol. It’s goal is to become a major healthcare company based on the block chain technology rather than traditional financial structures.Umbrella Coin can reduce costUmbrella Coin has several revolutionary innovations that no health care company on the market can match. The first innovation is that the claims process is governed by the universe of other Umbrella Coin owners. They vote through the Ethereum protocol on whether any claim should be paid out or not. They are interested in a sound system that is fair and can grow, not necessarily in the most profitable system.This radically changes the traditional model of claims payments. Under the current methodology, health insurance companies have an extremely detailed checklist of approved treatments and pharmaceuticals for each diagnoses. They have a bureaucratic structure with lawyers, claims management professionals and very few doctors to overseas the claims process. The people making the decisions are not doing it in the interest of patients but rather for the bottom line.The second huge innovation is the cost structure. Under the legacy bloated system results in many good claims that are rejected and many wasted costs. Additionally, the health insurance companies spend millions in sales and marketing to acquire new customers. This ultimately needs to be made up by raising premiums for current customers. Overall, prices continue to dramatically rise in this system.Under the Umbrella Coin system, this all changes. Since there is no costly claims process, no bureaucracy, no million dollar marketing campaign and no expensive overhead, claims can be far more generous for less costly. They can dramatically reduce costs and be more efficient.StructureThe overall structure is a little complex but makes the entire system extremely coherent. A new client first takes some of the Umbrella Coin from their wallet and devotes it to a “Float” pool. That allows the client to be covered under the health plan. After a small lock-out period, there is a maturation period under which they are covered by the plan. As time passes and no claims are required, some of the funds may be withdrawn with a small penalty. At the end of a contract period, there is no more penalty at all.If a claim is made during the maturation period, the community decides on the validity of the claim. If it is approved, the Coins are withdrawn from the Float and distributed to the individual. If the claim is rejected, no Coins are disbursed.TeamUmbrella Coin also has the team and background to execute on the vision they have outlined. They have a number of software developers from the largest software and insurance companies in the world. They have decades of experience in software development and education from some of the finest engineering and computer science programs. Additionally, Umbrella Coin has already started to build out its sales and marketing team to promote the use of the product.Blockchain Health Care Review is a leading hub of information about companies, technology and innovations around health care tech using the blockchain. Many people, companies and institutions have already formed tight partnerships through the site. For more information, please contact us.
Doc.ai – blockchain-enabled, AI-powered biology and health platform.A worldwide shortage of health professionalsThe Palo Alto-based, biology and health-focused AI company sees their technology as filling a much-needed gap in the present healthcare system. They point out that the World Health Organization has estimated that we are suffering from a worldwide shortage of seven millions healthcare professionals. Doctors and nurses are overworked, and relieving their burden with millions of additional healthcare professionals will inevitably require extensive, costly training over many years. According to doc.ai, however, AI can help relieve their burden and improve healthcare outcomes immediately.Information gatheringIn a recent article entitled “The Robo-Doctor will See You Now,” PC Magazine reviewed the doc.ai app after the company’s CTO provided a demo of the first stage of the patient’s interactive experience with the AI. The demo began with the AI, through the CTO’s mobile phone, asking the CTO to take a picture of himself with his phone (i.e. a “selfie”) in order for the AI to guess his gender, age, weight, height and BMI, all from his headshot. According to PC Magazine, other than the app’s guess of the CTO’s age, which was off by only a “couple years,” its analysis “was spot on.”In the next stage, the “robo-doctor” asks the patient to take a picture of their medicine cabinet and blood results. Later, the AI guides the patient through the process of importing subsets of their medical records (including “a full sequence genome” if the patient has one available) from various sources. As the patient’s personalized health data collection grows from all of their medical sources, the AI soon learns more about their health profile than any individual medical source could know. According to doc.ai, this puts their app in a unique position to provide highly informed medical insights.The AI-powered medical conversationOnce the aggregation of medical data is complete, the highly personalized, blockchain-enabled AI platform is able to respond to patients’ questions about their health 24/7 through the mobile app. According to the doc.ai team, the AI-supported dialogue is not merely a user-friendly interface for retrieving data already present in one’s medical record. Rather, it is a generator of new information and insight. In the company’s press release, doc.ai provides a number of examples of complex, personalized questions that the company claims their AI can handle, such as “What should be my optimal Ferritin value based on my iron storage deficiency?”The first “beta customer”Doc.ai is not only designing their AI to interact with patients, but health professionals. The company is currently testing their first module, Robo-Hematology, with Deloitte Life Sciences and Healthcare, their “first beta customer.” Co-founder and CEO of doc.ai, Walter De Brouwer envisions health professionals and institutions having a direct dialogue with lab tests themselves “by leveraging advanced artificial intelligence, medical data forensics, and the decentralized blockchain.”In addition to Robo-Hematology, within the next twelve months doc.ai plans to release two additional blockchain-enabled, AI-powered natural language dialog modules for use by leading medical organizations addressing specific areas of healthcare and life sciences: Robo-Anatomic and Robo-Genomics.Neuron: the doc.ai blockchain tokenIn order to reward usage and run their blockchain-enabled AI technology, doc.ai is following the Ethereum token standard to generate their tokens, which they are calling “Neurons” (NRNs). Doc.ai is creating a marketplace for SAFTs (Simple Agreements for Future Tokens) on September 7th, followed by a token sale on September 28th. Upon launch, SAFTs will convert to NRNs. To tie the size of their token pool to their subject matter, doc.ai plans to make the total number of NRNs 86 billion, roughly equal to the human brain’s total neuron count.Contact us to learn more. Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with leading DLT research in an effort to bring the most current information to members of the community.
Dentacoin is Using Blockchain to Shift the Focus of Dentistry from Treatment to Prevention.The rapid development of blockchain technology is poised to disrupt just about every corner modern healthcare. Predictive health and PHI security use cases are utilizing distributed ledger technology to store vital patient information in a secure, traceable and transferable ways. However, innovators and entrepreneurs alike are also starting to test applications in specific provider specialties. One such area is dental care, lead by the visionary DentaCoin team.Dentistry Cryptocurrency and BlockchainA visit to the dentist can be a hit or miss experience depending on the effort put into personal care. From a young age, people tend to start visiting the dentist at regular intervals to stay on top of issues that would otherwise compound in severity rather quickly if left untreated or unattended. Although dental diagnostic technology and everyday tools of the trade have evolved significantly, advancements in informatics infrastructure on the backend and progress to stem trends such as gum disease haven’t had as much luck in advancing. Cryptocurrency in particular is a notable, low hanging fruit type opportunity for blockchain to get a foothold in the dentistry without really rewriting its IT infrastructure by way of enabling innovative payment methods. Still, dentistry is one of the lowest risk areas of health care since it is rarely a life threatening situation, albeit commonplace procedures that are more severe often require surgical precision, hence the requirement of medical school for dentists. The other side of the argument is that teeth can be kept healthy and strong with basic, habitual preventative care. This is a far cry from the amount of work it takes for the rest of the human body to stay healthy and happy. How does blockchain fit into all this? It’s an excellent incentivization mechanism that can be used to increase proper hygiene and thus prevent common, yet destructive chronic conditions from wreaking havoc.Enter DentaCoin. The outfit has created a trusted blockchain platform that will support a community network for dentists and patients alike, which is scheduled to launch in the fall of 2017. This community allows for constant feedback, education and a strong community between dentists and patients. The platform with is designed to facilitate with a low barrier for entry an information and improve oral care. It’s architected as a “decentralized, highly secure database of all patient health records” where “health data will be highly protected, updatable and accessible exclusively by patients or by dentists, upon a given permission”.Additionally, DentaCoin has created a payment system with its new coin DCN token, which integrates cryptocurrency into the dentistry patient care model for the first time. Using DCN, patients can pay dentists directly for care, pay for medical insurance, pay for preventative care and purchase oral care products. Dentists benefit from participation immensely as well. Integrating with DCN will allow dentists and their practices to purchase standard industry equipment at a lower than average cost through the Dentacoin Trading platform.DentaCoin also is positioned to democratize the dentistry industry by providing patient mediated data functionality for patients to take control of who sees their records as well as the opportunity to be rewarded with DCN if they allow their medical data (once scrubbed of identity) to contribute to the trend analysis tools offered to participating dentists. This type of secure, immutable data collectively overtime evolves into a highly targeted and intuitive population health asset, which in turn cuts down on diagnostics.Even with all of these benefits, some dentists and patients might wonder why to make the switch to a new, untested system. DentaCoin provides an innovative and unexpectedly lucrative answer to this question. The company will provide a profit sharing opportunity to all of the holders of the DCN coin. In any financial year, the DentaCoin Foundation will use 50% of profits gained and invest them back into the community. That will increase the price of the coin and help any current holders of the currency. It ensures that value will rise over time as long as more people enter the network.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
Encrypgen: The Gene-Chain Project.Security Issues Genomic DataOver the last few years, the scientific world saw an exponential growth in the type and volume of available genomic data. Genomic data refer to information with respect to an organism’s complete set of genes, or what we call genomic DNA. Technology kept up with the capture, processing, storage, and analysis of this critical information but solutions to the security and privacy of genomic databases lag far behind.Encrypgen’s Gene-Chain revolutionizes the genomic industryBy their very nature, genome sequencing contains the most sensitive data about individuals. DNA contains information on ethnic background, the propensity to develop certain medical conditions, even life expectancy and personality traits — all of which a person may want to keep confidential and out of the hands of cyber criminals.Gene-Chain stores genomic data from individual donors and researchers, which can then be used for metadata searched . This storage platform makes it easier to browse through the material and securely share scientific data. Universities and other research centers — and even corporations — buy the right to store data on Gene-Chain. Once licensed, these scientific research centers and corporations can request to see stored data other than their own. The Gene-Chain processes these data requests by ensuring the requests comply with privacy and consent laws which, in turn, makes scientific collaboration and ethics procedures easier. Gene-Chain donors can see a complete historical record of all “withdrawals” of the data they upload to the platform. In addition, donors can grant specific scientists and research projects access to their data by giving them special keys that provide secure access for a specific time period, after which they expire.What is so special about Gene-Chain?Based on blockchain technology, Encrypgen’s Gene-Chain provides a trackable and unhackable method that enables transactions involving genomic information over secure networks. People who deposit, use, or mine genomic data receive Gene-Chain coins, a valuable and exchangeable cryptocurrency. In practical terms, this means that donors can make money from those who mine their data.Encrypgen is in the midst of its first sale of 80 million Gene-Chain coins which it expects to conclude sometime in July 2017. At of this date, the company sold 55% of the Gene-Chain offering. The company will distribute wallets at the end of the current sale. In August, 2017, the DNA tokens will list on crypto-exchanges.Who is Encrypgen?Co-founder David Koepsell, JD/PHD, brings his background in law, ethics, and software, to his position as Encrypgen CEO. He leads Encrypgen’s mission to develop systems that will improve the usefulness and privacy of genetic databases and will protect database donors.The Co-founder of Encrypgen is Vanessa Gonzalez Covarrubis, PHD. She is the genomic science advisor for the team and brings more than a decade of genetic science experience to her role. She also writes extensively on genetic science for various publications. As genomic science advisor, Ms. Covarrubis researches pharmacogenomics which is the science behind the emerging field of personal medical genomics.Partners and MembersEncrypgen counts Curlew Research as an organizational partner which supports Encrypgen (and other technology partners) with life science and health innovative projects.Encrypgen is an organizational member of the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health. The company also actively seeks to create partnerships with other entities who share its interest in the security, privacy, and collaboration of genomic data for scientific and health purposes.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
Canadian Startup Peer Ledger Addressing Digital Identities with Blockchain.Peer Ledger is a Canadian blockchain software startup that specializes in identity management. Their primary current offering, Identity Bridge, links blockchain accounts to externally certified real-world identities. This real-to-digital identity mapping, according to the Peer Ledger vision, will bestow blockchain credentials with a trustworthiness that they lacked before this innovation. The company believes that trust-sensitive industries such as healthcare are an ideal fit for their solution. Peer Ledger recently teamed up with two leaders in the digital identity space to prove that it was possible to successfully map trusted, verified identities to otherwise anonymous blockchain accounts. In doing so, Peer Ledger believes they’ve helped pave the way for certain types of trust-sensitive software, such as clinical trial applications, to finally make full use of the blockchain platform.Ensuring trustworthy identities in the blockchainPeer Ledger sees itself as providing the missing piece in the project of establishing verified, trustworthy digital identities in the blockchain. Presently, applications built on the blockchain verify identities by matching pairs of private and public keys. However, because users can link any identity to their blockchain account, digital identities in the blockchain have a critical vulnerability when it comes to trust. Consequently, digital identities in the blockchain lack the reliability they need in industries such as healthcare, where a trustworthy digital identity is critical to the integrity of nearly every application. To bridge the trust gap, Peer Ledger makes use of the public key infrastructure (PKI) system to certify identities outside the blockchain before binding them to blockchain accounts. The result, according to the company, is that blockchain-based applications that take advantage of Peer Ledger’s Identity Bridge solution will now have verified, certified, trustworthy identities that users can count on in trust-sensitive industries such as healthcare.The Peer Ledger portalThe Peer Ledger portal has an interface for both admins and regular users. The admin interface primarily enables admins to issue and revoke mappings of certified digital identities to blockchain accounts. The standard user interface allows regular users to visit their security profiles and make updates to their certificate information, as well as other  fields.Recent proof-of-concept for healthcare applicationsPeer Ledger recently teamed up with digital identity standards provider SAFE-BioPharma and Synchronoss (NASDAQ:SNCR) to demonstrate through a proof-of-concept study that they could employ their solution to ensure the trustworthiness of the digital identities used in blockchain transactions. For example, clinical trials that are double-blind require known identities. However, prior to this proof-of-concept, it has been taken for granted that identities involved in blockchain transactions are anonymous. Therefore, it appeared that double-blind clinical trial transactions could not take place on the blockchain. Yet this study has shown that it’s possible to systematically link otherwise anonymous blockchain postings to proven identities, in this case SAFE-BioPharma compliant credentials. Further, the blockchain postings can remain anonymous for as long as necessary, such as for the duration of the clinical trial, before the system matches them to their verified external identities for the sake of regulatory compliance or clinical need.The future of digital identityPeer Ledger is building a new breed of identity management software designed to ensure the trustworthiness of digital identities attached to blockchain accounts. Their essential idea is to map externally certified identities to blockchain accounts whose identities would otherwise remain either anonymous or unreliable. Admins can perform the mappings, and users can update their certificates, through the Identity Bridge portal. This real-to-digital identity mapping, according to the Peer Ledger vision, will bestow blockchain credentials with a trustworthiness that they lacked up to this point. Peer Ledger teamed up with SAFE-BioPharma and Synchronoss for a proof-of-concept that successfully demonstrated that they could de-anonymize blockchain accounts to make certain trust-sensitive software, such as clinical trial applications, a viable option for blockchain-based platforms. According to the startup, not only the clinical trial space, but the trust-sensitive healthcare industry as whole, could make use of their demonstrated solution.
DokChain by PokitDok – Blockchain for Healthcare.PokitDok, a healthcare software platform provider, has recently introduced a new offering: DokChain, “blockchain for healthcare.” PokitDok envisions DokChain helping usher in a new era of value-based care handled (in the background) primarily by artificial intelligence (AI), rather than Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). This new breed of AI, in the form of “smart contracts,” will reside on DokChain, the company’s secure blockchain-based network. PokitDok’s expanding set of APIs will, in turn, connect all healthcare participants to the AI-rich DokChain and to each other. An impressive initial group of leading technology and healthcare partners, collectively the “DokChain Health Alliance,” has already signed on to lead the effort. And parent PokitDok’s $5M round of funding in March will certainly help fuel DokChain’s development for the remainder of 2017.The vision of DokChainDokChain made its formal debut on September 27th, 2016 at the Health 2.0 conference in Santa Clara, California. According to PokitDok Co-founder and CEO Lisa Maki, the introduction of blockchain in general (and DokChain in particular) into the healthcare system is part of the shift to value-based care. Maki argues that as the shift progresses, it’s becoming increasing clear that EMRs are no longer the sole repository of healthcare data. As a result, the push toward shared EMRs is at least partly misguided. After all, the EMR cannot capture the complete set of important events contributing to the patient’s overall “episode of care.” However, “smart contracts” can. These digital contracts, also known as “self-executing contracts” or “blockchain contracts” are a new breed of artificial intelligence (AI). Roughly speaking, smart contracts serve as ultra-efficient legal agents that can create, store and enforce contracts supporting the exchange of various forms of value (e.g. property, stock, money, etc.) on the blockchain in real-time. Accordingly, smart contracts, rather than the EMR, according to Maki, will emerge as the central medium for handling healthcare data in the future.The role of DokChainCEO Maki envisions DokChain connecting all endpoints (participants and stakeholders) in the healthcare ecosystem into a single secure blockchain network. These endpoints will not only include EMRs, but devices such as heart monitors. After pulling in data from all the endpoints participating in a given “episode of care,” DokChain records it, while handling permissions through “access grants” that DokChain “maintains and verifies.” The result is a distributed network of secure, richly organized healthcare data for stakeholders to track and share.The role of PokitDokAccording to Maki, although DokChain will serve as the blockchain network itself, PokitDok will provide the APIs connecting all of the following endpoints to the network and its “smart contract services”:Thirty party applications (more than 4,000). Insurance companies (more than 500). “[A]ll registered healthcare providers.”Use case: Insurance benefit checkOn stage at the Health 2.0 conference, Maki walked the audience through four steps in a typical use case—running a check to determine if one’s health insurance will cover a knee examination:Maki emphasizes that the benefits data itself is not stored on the DokChain, but rather in the secure PokitDok Platform. What is stored on DokChain are “access grants” to the benefits data, along with a complete record of the transaction that participants can access and share, subject to their permissions.PokitDok PartnersDokChain has announced an impressive list of initial partners:Microsoft GE Healthcare Adventist Healthcare The Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health SystemThis group, along with others, are joining forces in the DokChain Health Alliance (initially called “the Blockchain Alliance,” but later renamed) which Maki boldly claims will “ultimately define the future of blockchain in our industry.”FundingIn March, 2017, GIS Strategic Ventures (of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America) announced an investment of $5M in PokitDok. The company plans to use the funds not only to further develop DokChain, but to expand their existing API service.The investment round brings PokitDok’s total fundraising to date to $48M.Overall, DokChain is off to a strong start. It has set a clear strategic goal for itself of becoming the AI-run blockchain network for the era of value-based care; it has established a path to integration with the wealth of APIs that its parent company continues to expand; it has landed an impressive set of initial partners with the DokChain Health Alliance; and it has attracted ample funding, alongside parent PokitDok, with March’s $5M round. Although there are other ambitious contenders, such as Gem Health, vying to become “the blockchain of healthcare,” DokChain has come out of the gate with a lot of promise.Follow PokitDoc:Developer Blog: fullmetalhealth.comContact us for more on blockchain healthcare startups.
Patientory – Blockchain, A.I. and Population Health Management.Blockchain Solutions for Population Health ManagementPatientory is a healthcare start-up aiming to transform the way patients keep track of their health information by empowering them to manage their own health care. Although based in Atlanta, Patientory grew out of a collaboration between Boulder, Colorado’s Boomtown Health-Tech Accelerator and Colorado Permanente Medical Group (of Kaiser Permanente). They are also in partnership with Startup Health.Patientory has placed their focus on four inter areas: a mobile app, the Electronic Health Record, the health sector’s first crypto-token, and Patientory’s blockchain platform.The Patientory mobile appSimply called “Patientory,” the Patientory mobile app enables users to store, view and track their health care data using HIPPA-complaint blockchain technology. Patientory’s advanced patient profile gives users instant access to their:Medical history Doctor visits Medications Immunizations Health insuranceOn the Patientory blog, the team argues that the digitization of health care information not only has obvious advantages, such as instant access to one’s health data, but less immediately noticeable advantages as well. These include a reduction in lost data (e.g. from indecipherable handwriting); enhanced patient-doctor communication; emergency alerts (e.g. of life-threatening drug-interactions); and an increase in preventative care due to empowered and informed patients. More generally, Patientory claims that the digitization of health care data will increase healthcare quality and efficiency while reducing the nation’s healthcare costs by billions each year.Patientory and the EHRAccording to Patientory CEO Chrissa McFarlane, adoption of the Electronic Health Record has reached “approximately 90%” among health care providers. Nonetheless, McFarlane points out that recent security breaches have only worsened concerns over the privacy and security of EHRs. Furthermore, doctors and hospitals are often unable to share their information with one another. The result is not only an inefficient system, but a marked decrease in the quality of care. After all, every minute that doctors spend manually entering their patient’s data is another minute they could have spent with their patient. McFarlane maintains that blockchain is the most popular solution to the problem under discussion among technologists specializing in the healthcare sector. Patientory is building their platform accordingly.The Patientory crypto-tokenOn April 25th, Patientory announced that they were taking a bold step toward realizing the task of interconnecting patients’ EHRs (while preserving their privacy) with the introduction of the first crypto-token to the healthcare sector. According to McFarlane, the Patientory platform will transfer tokens—PTYs—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patients. The result: both a reduction in the cost, and an increase in the quality, of healthcare. Patientory’s token sale is set to open on May 17th.The Patientory platformOn a more technical level, the Patientory platform (a health information exchange or HIE) makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology to encrypt and decentralize data so that it distributed and HIPPA-compliant. As a result, with Patientory’s help, “the healthcare ecosystem” now has the means to embrace a blockchain platform and “to seamlessly exchange” information. According to Patientory, providers have every reason to participate, as the blockchain system promises to improve efficiency, eliminate redundancy and bring down the cost of care.Taking a broader view, Patientory sees a new model emerging for the U.S. healthcare system. McFarlane explains that the overall goal is to transition the healthcare system in the U.S. from a “pay-per-service” platform to a “value-based” platform. But to accomplish this task requires a trusted healthcare information system that enables participating organizations to track and reward “medical interventions” based on their “quality, value and effectiveness.”Overall, Patientory has a bold vision backed by a sophisticated app and blockchain platform. Yet the healthcare system has been slow to embrace systematic change in the past. Therefore, whether Patientory will succeed where others have failed in transforming the health sector is an open question. For fans of the “Facebook for healthcare,” a cautious optimism may be in order.Contact us for more information on healthcare start-ups utilizing transformative blockchain technology.
Abid Hospital in Pakistan Accepts PakCoin Cryptocurrency.The Abid Hospital in Islamabad, Pakistan, has become the first hospital in Asia to accept payments in cryptocurrency. Patients get a 20% discount when they pay in Pakcoins.Abid is a fairly new hospital, opened in January 2015. It is primarily a surgical facility and lists a staff of nine doctors. It accepts a limited number of charity cases.While Bitcoin remains secure as the world’s leading cryptocurrency, it has become less suitable for some purposes than it used to be. It was the first of its kind, and its creator, the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, didn’t expect today’s widespread use. Transactions require confirmation for recipients to be sure they’ve been paid; otherwise, dishonest people could spend the same money twice. The time to complete confirmation has grown long, sometimes taking hours.  The associated fees have grown large enough to discourage Bitcoin’s use for small payments.Many alternative currencies have entered the competition, offering solutions to these problems. PakCoin is specifically aimed at Pakistanis, though it can be used anywhere. Up to 150,000 Pakistanis can get 50 Pakcoins (a very small amount at current exchange rates) for free. It claims “nearly instant transactions” and very low or zero processing fees. It’s derived from Litecoin, which was designed to handle higher transaction volumes than Bitcoin. Like Litecoin, it relies on an algorithm known as scrypt.Pakcoin and Litecoin use the same blockchain concepts as Bitcoin. There are multiple copies of the ledger. New blocks are created by “mining,” which requires computational effort and is rewarded by newly created units of currency. The code is open source.The advantages of cryptocurrencyAn interview with the developer of Pakcoin (who goes by the name Pakcoin) discloses some of its purposes. A key goal is to make it usable for ordinary people who don’t know much about cryptocurrency or blockchains. Eventually people will be able to associate wallets with user names, so that they can accept payments at an address with a recognizable name.Pakistan isn’t a wealthy country. The average annual income is about $1500 in US currency. Investment and savings are low. Only 15% of Pakistanis have bank accounts. Cryptocurrency can be a useful tool for people who don’t have bank accounts or credit cards. The challenges in Pakistan are strong; only about a quarter of the population has a mobile Internet connection. Smartphone adoption is growing fast, though, and could exceed 50% by 2020.The risksCryptocurrency remains risky. Some currencies have collapsed when their development teams fell apart. People who put all their money into Pakcoin could get rich or lose everything.Any new way of doing business opens up avenues for fraud, since most people don’t understand it in detail and can be tricked. If user names become a common way of designating wallets, spoofing of names will inevitably follow. Fraudulent exchanges will try to cheat people, taking money outright or misrepresenting market exchange rates.The value of a cryptocurrency comes from its usefulness in exchange, and every organization that accepts payment in it adds to its legitimacy and stability. In some parts of the world, such as Pakistan, more people have cell phones than have bank accounts. Cryptocurrency payments stand a reasonable chance of being widely adopted, since they’re a more accessible option for a large part of the population.Abid Hospital is small and new, but it might be the start of a trend. As more organizations adopt digital currency as a payment option, it will become more familiar, and the currency will stabilize. There are still many ways the scenario could go wrong, but it’s a trend worth watching.Blockchain technology has many potential uses in healthcare, from payment to sharing of patient records. Blockchain Healthcare Review covers them all. Join the discussion- contact us.
A Recap of The TRUSTECH Conference.The three-day conference will take place at the Palais des Festivals, Cannes from November 29th to December 1st. Here is a further recap of the TRUSTECH ConferenceThe AttendeesEighteen thousand people will attend the conference. Three quarters of the people will be international visitors, representing 130 different countries. The conference organizers estimate that over half of the attendees (53%) are Chief Exective Officers. Meanwhile, 17% are high level executives and engineers. Project Managers and Product Managers will make up 16% of the conference attendees.The ExhibitorsAbout 400 exhibitors will be at the event. Eight out of ten of the exhibitors will be international.The Keynote SpeakersThe TRUSTECH Conference will have thirteen key-note speakers. J.B. Straubel, the Co-Founder and CTO of Tesla Motors, and Adrian Ludwig the Director of Engineering at Google are some of the notable speakers.About the TRUSTECH ConferenceThe conference offers attendees the perfect opportunity to network and learn more about the industry during the presentations. The prominent guest speakers at the TRUSTECH conference have pivotal roles in the identification, payment, and connection industry.Attendees can also browse the exhibit booths to learn more about innovative technologies that are disrupting the industry. For example, the TRUSTECH CONFEX booth will showcase the newest technology that collects people’s payment and identification information.Other exhibitors will include companies that offer telecommunications and cloud services, consultants, financial institutions, merchants, and equipment manufacturers.Please contact us for more information about the event.
Review of Zcash and Potential Applications for the Healthcare Industry.Zcash for the healthcare industry, providing ultimate privacy for patients and providersReview: Zcash, additional privacy for medical transactions.Zcash is the latest bitcoin-derived cryptocurrency, rolled out on Friday October 28 of 2016. Where Zcash differs from other cryptocurrencies is that all transactions offer full anonymity with every transaction. This privacy is further guaranteed by the use of public blockchain structures as the platforms of use.Complex cryptography to create true financial privacy.Zcash goes even further in providing private transactions by employing a form of cryptography called zero-knowledge proofs. Without getting too deep in the crypto speech, what zero -knowledge proofs create is the knowledge that something happened, but the outside observer has no way of knowing any particulars about that event.An example of ZcashYou start with ten wallets with one bitcoin each in them. 2 users employ Zcash transparency protocols. What is recorded on the blockchain is 10 bitcoins, 2 of them shielded. This is an oversimplification, but you get the picture.Who needs this kind of privacy?Lots of people. The era of cryptocurrencies being associated with nefarious deeds and transactions is ending. Here are some examples of people wishing to shield their financial transactions from scrutiny.Zcash and the Ethereum blockchain.The newest update of the Ethereum blockchain will include almost full functionality with Zcash protocols. Ethereum blockchain technology is revolutionizing the healthcare industry for the better. As Zcash protocols thrive and diversify, all blockchain applications will start providing zero knowledge proof technology to their clients large and small.Decentralizing the health care industry for superior security.Most noteworthy, blockchain technology and applications like Zcash make it easier for the individual or health care provider to access secure and private networks for their patient data and transactions. This creates a situation where both end-user and recipient benefitIn conclusionBlockchain technology is changing the way health-care professionals and organizations do business. From providing better security and safety protocols for patient records and transactions to creating safe data storage for massive amounts of patient data, health care providers are leaping onto the blockchain bandwagon. Any additional structure that aids in that process is a welcome. Zcash is another tweak to provide stable security and privacy during medical transactions. When you are ready to learn more please contact us.
Blockchains Rising Impact on Healthcare.The current healthcare IT (HIT) infrastructure holds healthcare data in some type of centralized location such as an EHR system or a repository run by a health information exchange (HIE). Health IT systems notoriously suffer from critical flaws  to privacy and security due to the complexity of sharing troves of medical and financial data from various points of care.Blockchain technology is a way of organizing data so that transactions can be verified and recorded through the consensus of all parties. Blockchain technology requires each individual participant (i.e. node) to hold a copy of the entire record.  Any change to this record must be compared against every node before being approved . The trick for the healthcare sector is to decide how much personal information to actually put on the blockchain (depending on need). The other option is investing in the development of better key distribution systems that could allow individual users to allocate access to each point of care such as Provider X, Specialist Y, Pharmacy Z etc.Blockchain Technology Impact in Healthcare InnovationIntroduction of blockchain in healthcare will address these matters. The public conversation about blockchain in the healthcare sector is gaining traction. The Distributed: Health conference showcased a strong desire to learn and innovate was palpable.Control of medical expenditureMedical care is far too high and continues to rise. Solving this problem is not in sight, even as the health sector moves in to adopt blockchain. As blockchain continues to prove relevant in streamlining cost saving measures in finance, the health sector will in turn address optimizing transaction based operational bottlenecks. Examples include bundled payments and claims remittance. Steady adoption is key to success, taking lessons learned from the rapid adoption in the finance sector.Updating current HIT infrastructureAs opposed to adopton, some argue that it’s better to upgrade the existing infrastructure as a short term fix. The argument sticks to the fact that the healthcare industry is not yet ready for production-ready technology. While that may be true as of this writing, it most likely won’t stay true for long. The conversation has shifted from tech enthusiast circles to the boardroom in a very short period of time.HIT Security ConcernsSecurity of health records and other details are imperative to secure in the healthcare sector. In an article published by Reuters, medical record are worth more to hackers than credit card numbers. Now that HIPPA mandates for EHRs are in full fine mode for non compliance, developing cryptographically secured methods for sharing PHI data is a must win battle for the U.S.  healthcare system is to survive.For more details on upcoming block chain conferences, contact us.
Hyperledger Pushes Forward Advancements in Healthcare.Hyperledger is an open source collaboration involving blockchain developers and big businesses. Hosted by The Linux Foundation, this growing community is pushing the boundaries of blockchain development with a wide range of projects. As you’ve no doubt gathered, blockchain apps are transforming the way in which we deal with data across a wide range of business sectors and the area of healthcare will no doubt benefit greatly from the current developments in this area.Why blockchain applications are a step forward for healthcare data managementThe move from traditional distributed database systems to blockchain distributed ledger systems will have far reaching effects that will benefit patients and medical professionals alike.DecentralizationWhen a user accesses a blockchain ledger, there is no obvious clue that the data is not centrally located. Blockchain gives the illusion of a centralized system, but in reality, the data is distributed across many different locations. This allows for greater collaboration, and all data is synchronized immediately. So a doctor, staff in a hospital, and the patient can all update the data held, yet no one individual can claim ownership of the overall system, be this the hospital or a third party intermediary. Therefore, there is no ultimate reliance on one single system. When all data is located in one place, a failure of that system can be catastrophic, especially in the healthcare business when there are literally lives at stake.A clear audit trail for accountabilityWhen using blockchain technology, an audit trail is created and cannot be manipulated. This makes it highly reliable. Additionally, a block can only be altered by the owner of that block, and so it is easy to find out with whom particular data originated, and who has changed it. Data can be validated, and so can be reused as a verified reliable source.Data is very secure and so privacy is assuredMedical records are highly sensitive. When a doctor records data regarding the condition of a patient, it is expected that the data is entirely confidential. While measures are always taken to protect such sensitive information, blockchain adds a very high level of security into the equation. All data is encrypted, and can only be decrypted when a user holds the private key to do so.The application of blockchain ledger technology within the industryIt’s not just the storage of patient records that can benefit from these new technologies. Blockchain developers for healthcare are working on many different aspects of the business to implement these technologies across a broad range of areas. For instance, insurance claim processing and research sectors. Insurance claims will be easier to audit, data will be more easily accessible by involved parties and fraud detection will be improved. Claims will therefore go through faster which of course will be of benefit to those who have put in a claim. With a higher level of fraud detection, the number of fraudulent claims will be reduced, and so policy prices could well fall. Data gathering for research will also improve, giving greater opportunities for study and advancement.
Luna DNA, a Blockchain-Funded Community Genomic Project.Enter Luna DNA, another interesting turn in the healthcare industry.What is Luna DNA?Luna DNA is “a genomic and medical research database powered by blockchain.” Luna DNA takes a community-based approach to gathering and sharing medical data. Traditional medicine often takes samples and other information while giving little back, a state of affairs heavily criticized for example in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, where despite having their mother’s cells used throughout modern medicine, the children and other relatives received nothing in return. While medical laws try to protect individuals from unwanted medical procedures and breaches of privacy, these laws can also act against the interests of people, giving no or little incentive to contribute their DNA and medical information. Luna DNA strives to undo this unbalance by giving community members Luna Coins, digital currency, in exchange for sharing their information. This give and take system then entitles recipients to receive assistance information in turn.Roots in Genomic ResearchLuna DNA has its roots in genomic research, where useful information often depends on a cross-section of samples. Without samples to compare, genomic research quickly becomes irrelevant, even impossible. CEO and Co-Founder Bob Kain and President and Co-Founder Dawn Barry both have roots in Illumina, a global genomics company working in everything from healthcare to agriculture. While working at Illumina and in other industry- positions, Barry and Kain saw firsthand the benefits of genomics together with the challenges facing researchers and consumers alike. They wanted to find some way to incentivize individuals to share their information, because the more information available, the better the research results. The better the research results, the more consumers should be able to expect in return. Thus, Luna DNA was born.Why Blockchain?Cryptocurrency like Bitcoin and Luna DNA’s Luna Coins represent a new way to hold and keep data secure. In the case of Luna Coins, the community invests, members of community hold their coins, and this information is available to all parties, keeping business transparent while keeping each individual member’s information secure. In many ways, a business like Luna DNA is a prime example of when and why cryptocurrency is so important. You want everyone (at least everyone in the community) to help guard your data, so that it will be impossible for someone to counterfeit or change what you have stored in your ledger. At the same time, you want the details including your ownership to be kept private via privileged encryption, so that not just anyone can see the details.Considering the stated aim of Luna DNA, to hold highly personal information in a shared database where everyone benefits in a mutually understood way, blockchain is the perfect technology partner for this mission. Luna DNA successfully raised $2 million dollars in ICO capital last year. On a practical level as well as a symbolic one, blockchain works for this business.Blockchain and the Future of HealthcareLooking ahead to the future of Luna DNA, of Luna Coins, and blockchain tech in general, one can see a trend developing, a trend toward decentralized funding and greater community involvement on all levels. As healthcare continues to become more consumer-driven, with secure medical records access online and on-demand, funding and investing will have to evolve keep up. Only time will tell, of course, but savvy companies and savvy investors will do well to pay attention these and other opportunities as they arise. Times are definitely changing.For more information about blockchain funding in the healthcare industry, contact us today.
VitalHub – blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider for mental health.Toronto, Ontario-based VitalHub is a blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider. Primarily serving mental health and long-term care communities, VitalHub’s software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform is designed to interconnect existing healthcare systems and data repositories through secure interoperability solutions. In 2017, VitalHub acquired EHR-provider HI Next (owner of TREAT), and healthcare platform-provider B Sharp. Together these acquisitions significantly expanded VitalHub’s offering and customer base. On January 11th, 2018, the company announced that it was officially entering the blockchain-based healthcare technology marketplace with plans to focus on blockchain-powered solutions that bring greater interoperability to the healthcare ecosystem.TechnologyVitalHub maintains that the rapidly growing blockchain-based IT solution marketplace presents a unique opportunity for properly positioned healthcare solution providers. As blockchain-powered platforms begin to reshape the healthcare IT landscape in 2018, VitalHub argues that it has four complementary strengths that position it for success in the blockchain-based healthcare solution marketplace: extensive in-house expertise; a management team seasoned in scaling global healthcare businesses; a large pre-existing customer base; and an IT team highly experienced in building innovative healthcare applications. As VitalHub enters the blockchain-based solution marketplace, it is positioning itself as a “Blockchain as a Service (BaaS)” provider addressing the challenge of interoperability “across the continuum of care.”Partnerships and acquisitionsVitalHub plans to seek partnerships with “global consulting groups” to help spread blockchain-based solutions throughout the global healthcare sector. In addition to these strategic partnerships, VitalHub aims to significantly accelerate its growth through mergers and acquisitions, a process that is already “successfully underway.” On March 24, 2017, VitalHub announced its intention to acquire two healthcare IT companies: HI Next and B Sharp Technologies. On October 5th, 2017, VitalHub further announced that it had finalized the B Sharp acquisition; and on December 22nd, 2017, VitalHub announced a “definitive agreement” to acquire HI Next.HI NextHI Next is the owner of TREAT, a fully hosted, web-based EHR and healthcare coordination platform used by more than 80 healthcare providers in North America. The TREAT integrated solution includes “over 100 clinical assessment tools” spanning a wide range of sectors including primary care, mental and behavioral health, and community care.B Sharp TechnologiesToronto-based B Sharp Technologies, founded in 1998, primarily provides EHR, clinical documentation and case management solutions for health, community care and social services organizations. Their solutions specifically address mental health, cardiology, specialty care, “complex continuing care,” long term care and pharmacy. In addition to their solutions, B Sharp provides business consulting and custom development services. B Sharp has more than 40 customers across Canada.TeamThe VitalHub executive team includes President and CEO Dan Matlow, who formerly held the same executive leadership position at Medworxx Solution Inc., a patient-throughput management solution provider co-founded by VitalHub’s VP of Mobile Technology, Andre Vandenberk. VitalHub’s CFO and Executive VP Brian Goffenberg, also from Medworxx, previously held financial management positions at Philips Lifeline, DWL Inc. and Delrina Corp. Peter Catford, HI Next Principal, is joining VitalHub as Chief Strategist.CompanyVitalHub, publicly traded as VHI on the TSX Venture Exchange, first established itself as a technology platform for developing mobile health (mHealth) solutions. The company maintains that their “platform provides the control, security, privacy and consistency essential in the healthcare industry.” With applications already ranging from clinical care to medical research, the mHealth platform provider is now expanding into blockchain-based solutions. According to the VitalHub team, a lack of interoperability among healthcare stakeholders has been stifling progress across the entire healthcare ecosystem. In response, VitalHub plans to develop and sell blockchain-powered interoperability solutions. VitalHub’s long-term strategic mission is to secure a global leadership position among blockchain-based healthcare solution providers. They aim to grow rapidly through mergers and acquistions, while selling innovative blockchain-based healthcare solutions to their existing customer base.To learn more about blockchain-based healthcare initiatives, startups, POCs and ICOs, contact us.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
HealthyTail- Improving Animal Healthcare Using Blockchain.HealthyTail is a project built around TAILS tokens. It concerns itself primarily with the pet data economy.TAILS OverviewThe idea behind HealthyTail and its TAILS tokens here are to grow the community in order to gather data about pets. Pure breeds are particularly susceptible to this problem given that inbreeding creates a buildup of harmful mutations. In other words, the same process that creates breeds that are so wildly different from each other in the first place also leads to unique medical conditions. This is exactly the issue that the TAILS coin seeks to help counter.The Problem the TAILS Seeks to SolveOne the main problems that HealthyTail and the TAILS tokens are trying to solve involve pure breed cats and dogs. There are a number of problems that these pure breeds have which are specific to the breed. The problem is that there are so many pure breeds out there these days that there’s a lack of data about what problems they might have relative to the sheer number of dogs affected.Many people are looking for more lab research and data  to genetics that can help investigate these problems. The HealthyTail team is trying to connect all interested parties together via the coin. This includes labs, the breeders themselves, vets, those who own the pure breeds as pets, those seeking to win competitions and everyone else by using the blockchain.HealthyTail also has plans on expanding to the equine industry. “HealthyTail platform is fully applicable to equines. We have already received several requests on that. We are going to get into equine genetics and health right after cats and dogs. We are considering the possibility of changing priorities if we have relevant partners and/or investors” says Natalia Nifantova, CMO of HealthyTail.How the TAILS Token WorksYou can gain TAILS tokens by entering information into the database. On the flip side, if the goal is to take information out of the database such as gaining information about an animal breed, then you would pay TAILS into the database instead. This is how the project seeks to gain stability and eventually grow. As it gains notoriety, the idea is that more and more people will be interested in drawing from the database, so the token will naturally grow.Overall AnalysisThe coin is certainly backed by a unique concept, so competition isn’t likely to impede short. Transparency is a strong suit with the project as it appears to be fairly upfront about a lot of their approaches including how they spend their money, which is nearly half on data as well as a hefty chunk on designing and registering new drugs. Eventually they want these numbers to go up so that there’s more than a quarter spent on drugs after 5 years. The goal of the project is also to have there be economic efficiency In just two years. In terms of the TAILS coin itself, the goal is to put over three-quarters into the ICO.Overall, it’s an ambitious project that seeks to draw those interested in a more risky endeavor with a lot of room to grow. Obviously, when it comes to investing, the idea is that you should mitigate risk by investing in properties of various different levels of risk, so this could be more of a stretch risk option.For more information about ICOs and blockchain, please contact us today.
The CDC Exploring Several Blockchain Proof of Concepts.The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has become increasingly involved in the pursuit of blockchain-powered healthcare solutions this year. First, they began independently exploring several blockchain-based proofs of concept (POCs) to make health data management more efficient and secure in moments of crisis, such as a pandemic. Next, they embarked on a partnership with IBM Watson Health to expand their blockchain-based POCs. Together with the FDA’s separate blockchain-based projects, which are also in conjunction with Watson Health, there is clearly a move this year toward greater federal involvement in the adoption of blockchain technology in the health sector.The CDC’s exploration of the blockchainA recent article in the MIT Technology Review explains that the CDC has been actively exploring several blockchain-based POCs this year in order to “help public health workers respond faster to a crisis,” such as a pandemic. Currently, local health workers can use the CDC’s mobile app to log patient information and work out who should receive specific medications. However, the CDC’s current application continues to encounter a stumbling block when it comes to finding an efficient way for the CDC to store personal patient information while also conforming to strict federal privacy regulations. Jim Nasr of the CDC’s Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services, where he serves as the chief software architect, sees the blockchain as a potential solution to the problem, enabling the CDC “to store and share that data much faster while complying with security and privacy laws.” Furthermore, blockchain technology is inherently built to support the peer-to-peer data model found in the public health sector.Current project statusThe CDC aims to move from the POC phase to the real-world application phase in 2018. Meanwhile, a few challenges remain before the federal institute can go live with a blockchain-powered solution. The CDC team still needs to work out who will own the computer network where the health data will live; who will have read/write permissions; and how the CDC and others will manage IDs.New partnership with IBM Watson HealthOn October 24th, IBM Watson Health announced that they had teamed up with the CDC to explore the benefits of a blockchain-powered solution for collecting, sharing and managing healthcare data. IBM Watson Health sees the CDC partnership as building upon their current collaboration with the FDA as IBM further expands their efforts to bring about greater blockchain adoption. IBM’s chief science officer, Shahram Ebadollahi, and chief health officer, Kyu Rhee, emphasized that the research partnership with the CDC will focus on the connection between the blockchain and AI. According to Ebadollahi and Rhee, the primary role of the blockchain in POCs surrounding healthcare data is enhanced security. A properly implemented blockchain-based system “offers a level of security that will reassure all the various stakeholders in healthcare,” including patients, doctors and insurers. The role of AI, on the other hand, is insight. While the blockchain will securely collect and store the data, AI will “extract insights” from it.Although the CDC and IBM have not yet released further details on their blockchain-powered POCs, they emphasized that further details will soon follow.Federal blockchain adoption and healthcare’s futurePrivate sector startups will undoubtedly play an important role in increasing adoption of blockchain technology in the healthcare space. However, public sector institutes and agencies, such as the CDC and the FDA, are clearly going to play a critical role as well. In fact, because sensitive healthcare data is often collected and governed by federal organizations, blockchain adoption in the healthcare sector may be uniquely dependent on federal adoption to succeed.For more information on important blockchain-powered POCs in both the private and public sectors, contact us.
Blockchain Expo North America – November 2017 in Santa Clara.As the world of blockchain technology grows exponentially larger, a series of blockchain conferences has emerged for people to meet and share information. This upcoming fall, the Blockchain Expo of North America will be held in Santa Clara, California. The event will be held from November 29th to 30th at the Santa Clara Convention Center near Silicon Valley. Engineers, businesses and interested individuals from the region and around the continent will come to discuss the emerging technology. One of the hot topics of the convention will be health care uses for block chain. It could be a major opportunity for new companies and organizations to be born.The event will feature over 1,500 attendees and 60 speakers doing 20 different sessions. There is an enormous amount of energy around this event and will have multiple areas of interest. Healthcare is one of the largest areas of interest as it is such a massive opportunity and industry.For example, the event organized a prime panel called “Blockchain in the healthcare system”. The two main speakers include Diego Espinoza, CEO of Health Coin and John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health.These two individuals will discuss three main areas. Firstly, they will talk about moving patient data on the block chain. The technology allows new friction free transfer of data that has so far eluded other companies and information technology. This is a huge development for software developers, payment providers, health care providers, doctors and patients. It makes the whole system more seamless which allows doctors to catch symptoms faster or make diagnoses easier.  They also no longer need to fear prescribing medication that conflicts with existing drugs or that the patient is allergic to.Next, they will discuss data sharing including patient privacy and security. This is perhaps the most important concept because blockchain technology can protect patient data and encrypt information with 100% security. It accords with the HIPAA regulation and also leaves the patient feeling safe about the transfer of their sensitive information. Government regulators have already signaled their positive feelings about this technology for that reason. It seems that the security features of the blockchain will help it gain rapid greater acceptance for this sector in the future.Finally, the panel will discuss trial visibility along with automated patient consent platforms. That technology will help scientists improve the speed and viability of drug testing. It will reduce costs and ultimately bring drugs to market quicker at lower prices. Scientists will no longer have to use cumbersome distribution models to find patients in need of their drug trials. Rather, they can use 100% secure digital distribution models to link with consumers, achieve their consent and administer the drugs in partnership with a local health care provider. The end goal is that the price of drug development will drop from hundreds of millions of dollars to perhaps tens of millions or even a few million dollars. That would radically upend the current go to market path for a new drug and cause a revolution in the industry. That could lead to many new breakthrough drugs.While the sponsors and attendees have yet to all be confirmed, the conference promises to have hundreds of individuals interested in the health care market. So more people with interest in this sector will be attending the conference than many free standing blockchain healthcare focused events.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading hub for information about the blockchain technology  to the healthcare industry. The site includes places to learn, exchange information and meet new entrants to the space. It profiles existing growing companies and breakthrough technology. For more information, please contact us.
An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to Blockchain.An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to BlockchainThe internet is an anonymous place, and that anonymity makes things like buying good or procuring services from across borders and seas quite easy. Unfortunately, the same anonymity also makes it incredibly difficult to keep a record of the transaction that is not nebulous. Thanks to a new system derived from Cloud Computing, much similar to Cryptocurrencies themselves, that is set to change.This technology is called Blockchain. And it follows a pretty simple scheme to get a retrievable, non-alterable account of all your online transactions via cryptocurrencies available for record.When you transfer a sum of money via Bitcoin, Ethereum or another cryptocurrency to someone else, the transaction is recorded in a block of data. This block cannot be altered or tampered with, which is the base of the transparency of the system. The data does not use your real world identity either, if that’s what you prefer. The data is thus certain and definitive, yet respectful of privacy.This block of data is then stored in folders. Several copies of this data are stored on multiple devices, giving rise to a chain-like structure if you trace the path of the information. This is what earns the system the name Blockchain. The chain helps ensure there are multiple copies of the data available, so that even if one device is inaccessible at any point of time, the data is still available. The data is reliable since the same can be verified across the links in the chain.What’s more, the makers of the system have even figured a way to reward members of the chain monetarily. This sum can be treated as compensation for the CPU resources and electric power consumed in the process.Blockchains have a whole other dimension where we may soon see them contribute significantly. One such unlikely sphere is voting. As vital as it is to any true democracy, voting and counting fraud is a reality that many budding as well as established democracies struggle with. Blockchain based online voting systems may bring a welcome shift in trends towards a more transparent and reliable system of representation, eliminating counterfeit votes as well as ballot stuffing.The system can also benefit systems where booking services from the government may be involved, since it can eliminate bookies and fake representations as well as sale of anything from train tickets to contracts in the black market.Corporates like Walmart too are waking up to the benefits this system could bring to them. Blockchain has the potential to be the inventory management tool the world has been lacking all this while, bringing us an easy way to order and sell raw material as well as finished product with every minute movement on the market and its trends. It could be the next market revolution after share trading! Isn’t that something?Author Bio: Stacy Miller has been blogging ever since she was in high school. Her love for technology and disdain for generic Hollywood movies has only grown over the years. You can find more of her writing on Techiespad.com
2017 Distributed: Health – Nashville, TN.Distributed: Health Conference OverviewThe conference targets the healthcare, law and IT services industries. This year’s program provides conference sessions and three key learning opportunities for registrants: a two unit continuing legal education component, a 24-hour hack-a-thon for developers and a code camp. The CLE is open to attorneys and non-attorneys. Its track requires advance registration and costs $199. The hack-a-thon competition’s objective is to build and demonstrate an original blockchain-powered application. The competition offers prizes of more than $10,000. The code camp provides hands-on workshops for all levels of blockchain developers. The camp costs $50 and meets at The Bell Tower from 9:30 am to 5 pm, September 25th. The conference sessions cover four learning tracks:Blockchain for Business, CLE, Internet of Things, Payments.The two-day conference costs $649.Sessions and SpeakersThe conference kicks off with a keynote address from Change Healthcare CEO Neil de Crescenzo on his organization and its objectives. The networking lunch also features a keynote address. Dr. Harold Paz, Executive Vice President & Chief Medical Officer for Aetna will discuss his company’s Blockchain usage. The day closes with a keynote speech from John Sotos, Chief Medical Officer for Intel Health & Life Sciences.The conference features multiple panel sessions. These include:“A New Infrastructure for Healthcare,” combines presentations and discussion from: John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Bryan Smith, Chief Scientist of PokitDok; Miriam Paramore, President of OptimizeRx. “The Future of Payment Models” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development at Cerner Corporation; John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Francois de Brantes, Vice President & Director of the Altarum Center for Payment Innovation and Aaron Symanski, CTO of Change Healthcare. “Blockchain IoT Use Cases: Scalability & Security” with Siva Kannan, VP of Engineering for Gem; Carlos Elena-Lenz, Director of Intelligent Products & Solutions for Cognizant; Frank Ricotta, CEO for BurstIQ. “Introduction to Blockchain: Defining Use Cases” with Andrew Beal, Senior Manager of EY; Jennifer Georgino, Director of Ecosystem Development for Patientory; Brian Behlendorf, Executive Director for The Hyperledger Project; David Houlding, Director of Healthcare Privacy and Security for Intel Health and Life Sciences. “Blockchain & Revenue Cycle Management” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development for Cerner Corporation; Pearson Talbert, President of HealthcareTTU; Kyle Culver, Solution Architect for Humana; Scott Law, Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy, Zotec Partners; Jim Sohr, Chairman of Powered Health. “Clearing the Way for the Internet of Clinical Things” with Jason Goldwater, Senior Director of the National Quality Forum; David Metcalf, Director of the Mixed Emerging Technology Integration Lab at the UCF Institute for Simulation and Training; Kristen Johns, Counsel for Waller; Susan Ramonat, CEO of Spiritus Partners. “Laying a Foundation for Success: State Initiatives in Blockchain” with John Wagster, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Giles Ward, Executive Director for Hashed Health; Kenneth Bradberry, President of BlockChange. “Blockchain: The Individual & the Employer” with Frank Coliano, Operating Partner with The Riverside Company; Micah Winkelspecht, Founder and CEO of Gem; Peter Fuchs, Corporate Strategy for Mercer.WorkshopsThe first afternoon also offers hands-on learning opportunities. A workshop, “Blockchain Use Case Workshop with Optum,” hosted by Mike Jacobs, a Distinguished Engineer with Optum, introduces participants to Blockchain case studies. A live demonstration session, “Demos: Blockchain in Action,” presents technologies from Hashed Health, IBM, PokitDok, and the State of Illinois.CLE Session HighlightsA CLE registrants session, “Healthcare Regulation Meets Blockchain,” examines how Blockchain affects HIPAA compliance, legislative trends and regulatory issues. Panelists include: Caitlin Moon, COO and CDO for Legal Alignment; Larry Bridgesmith, CEO/Founder of Legal Alignment, Adel Elmissiry, CTO for Utilize Health, Jodi Daniel, Partner at Crowell & Moring.A second CLE registrants session, “The Legal Challenges of Token Offerings,” looks at the legal ramifications of token fundraising including securities laws, border limitations and consumer protections. Panelists include: Les Wilkinson, Chief Development Officer for Hashed Health; Gray Sasser, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Jason Epstein, Partner and Co-leader of Technology and Procurement Group for Nelson Mullins; Alan Cohn, Counselor and Strategic Advisor for Steptoe & Johnson LLP.See the agenda for Distributed: Health
Doc.ai – blockchain-enabled, AI-powered biology and health platform.A worldwide shortage of health professionalsThe Palo Alto-based, biology and health-focused AI company sees their technology as filling a much-needed gap in the present healthcare system. They point out that the World Health Organization has estimated that we are suffering from a worldwide shortage of seven millions healthcare professionals. Doctors and nurses are overworked, and relieving their burden with millions of additional healthcare professionals will inevitably require extensive, costly training over many years. According to doc.ai, however, AI can help relieve their burden and improve healthcare outcomes immediately.Information gatheringIn a recent article entitled “The Robo-Doctor will See You Now,” PC Magazine reviewed the doc.ai app after the company’s CTO provided a demo of the first stage of the patient’s interactive experience with the AI. The demo began with the AI, through the CTO’s mobile phone, asking the CTO to take a picture of himself with his phone (i.e. a “selfie”) in order for the AI to guess his gender, age, weight, height and BMI, all from his headshot. According to PC Magazine, other than the app’s guess of the CTO’s age, which was off by only a “couple years,” its analysis “was spot on.”In the next stage, the “robo-doctor” asks the patient to take a picture of their medicine cabinet and blood results. Later, the AI guides the patient through the process of importing subsets of their medical records (including “a full sequence genome” if the patient has one available) from various sources. As the patient’s personalized health data collection grows from all of their medical sources, the AI soon learns more about their health profile than any individual medical source could know. According to doc.ai, this puts their app in a unique position to provide highly informed medical insights.The AI-powered medical conversationOnce the aggregation of medical data is complete, the highly personalized, blockchain-enabled AI platform is able to respond to patients’ questions about their health 24/7 through the mobile app. According to the doc.ai team, the AI-supported dialogue is not merely a user-friendly interface for retrieving data already present in one’s medical record. Rather, it is a generator of new information and insight. In the company’s press release, doc.ai provides a number of examples of complex, personalized questions that the company claims their AI can handle, such as “What should be my optimal Ferritin value based on my iron storage deficiency?”The first “beta customer”Doc.ai is not only designing their AI to interact with patients, but health professionals. The company is currently testing their first module, Robo-Hematology, with Deloitte Life Sciences and Healthcare, their “first beta customer.” Co-founder and CEO of doc.ai, Walter De Brouwer envisions health professionals and institutions having a direct dialogue with lab tests themselves “by leveraging advanced artificial intelligence, medical data forensics, and the decentralized blockchain.”In addition to Robo-Hematology, within the next twelve months doc.ai plans to release two additional blockchain-enabled, AI-powered natural language dialog modules for use by leading medical organizations addressing specific areas of healthcare and life sciences: Robo-Anatomic and Robo-Genomics.Neuron: the doc.ai blockchain tokenIn order to reward usage and run their blockchain-enabled AI technology, doc.ai is following the Ethereum token standard to generate their tokens, which they are calling “Neurons” (NRNs). Doc.ai is creating a marketplace for SAFTs (Simple Agreements for Future Tokens) on September 7th, followed by a token sale on September 28th. Upon launch, SAFTs will convert to NRNs. To tie the size of their token pool to their subject matter, doc.ai plans to make the total number of NRNs 86 billion, roughly equal to the human brain’s total neuron count.Contact us to learn more. Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with leading DLT research in an effort to bring the most current information to members of the community.
The Illinois Blockchain Initiative and Hashed Health.On November 30th, 2016, the state of Illinois announced the launch of the Illinois Blockchain Initiative, founded for the purpose of exploring the application of blockchain technology to key government data-handling processes. One of the most promising developments of the initiative since its launch is its recent partnership with healthcare technology innovation consortium Hashed Health. The initial phase of the partnership will involve a pilot program aimed at improving the medical license credentialing process in Illinois through the use of blockchain and distributed ledger technology.The Illinois Blockchain InitiativeEver since its launch last November, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative has been active on a number of fronts. Prior to its partnership with Hashed Health in August, perhaps the initiative’s most significant move has been to clarify state law governing cryptocurrency. On June 13th, the initiative announced new rules governing the use of cryptocurrency among individuals and organizations operating in Illinois. According to their official statement, given that cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum are not issued by recognized financial institutions they do not meet the definition of legal tender found in the Illinois’ Transmitters of Money Act (TOMA). Nonetheless, cryptocurrencies still contribute to net worth as they can be exchanged for legal tender. Businesses in Illinois facilitating the exchange are therefore subject to TOMA regulations and will require a TOMA license. Furthermore, the cryptocurrency owned by cryptocurrency companies will be considered a “permissible investment.”Hashed HealthLocated in Nashville, Tennessee, Hashed Health is a consortium of healthcare organizations largely devoted to spreading blockchain-based innovation throughout the healthcare sector. The consortium offers its member organizations blockchain technology support in product development, regulatory assistance and several other critical areas. Gaining access to the wealth of health expertise and technology guidance that Hashed Health provides, member organizations can launch new health-focused and blockchain-based programs and technologies more efficiently, effectively and affordably.The partnershipOn August 8th, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative announced a pilot program in partnership with Hashed Health to explore the application of blockchain and distributed ledger technology to the process of issuing and tracking state medical licenses. At a technical level, the project will make full use of smart contracts (small, dedicated programs that store and retrieve specific units of information on-demand) to update medical credentials held in the shared, distributed, blockchain-based system.According to Bryan Schneider, Secretary of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR), the pilot program they are launching in partnership with Hashed Health will initially enhance the state’s efforts to make medical licenses for Illinois health professionals more portable. In the long term, the program could potentially serve as a leading example of how all states could more effectively verify and otherwise credential medical licenses. Both providers and payers alike may one day have a national, shared, secure and efficient repository of medical license data, ultimately improving provider listings while streamlining the medical claims process.Jennifer O’Rourke, Illinois Blockchain Initiative’s Blockchain Business Liason, foresees “sharing our learnings” not only with medical licensing boards in other states, but with all parties with an interest in the project’s goals. CEO of Hashed Health, John Bass, sees the broader goal of the project as a bold proof-of-concept for the value of blockchain that will contribute to a “digital transformation” not only for the state of Illinois, but for the public and private sectors as a whole. Ultimately, they are trying to usher in an era of greater “transparency and trust” between individual citizens and their government.A promising futureOverall, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative is a bold attempt to bring blockchain technology to one of the most important bodies of data handled by state government: medical licenses. By choosing to partner with healthcare technology innovation consortium Hashed Health they are drawing upon a wealth of blockchain and healthcare expertise that should increase the odds that their pilot program will succeed. If it does, we should expect that the program will serve as a model for other states and organizations that are eager to take advantage of the promise of blockchain to help data flow securely and efficiently throughout the greater healthcare system.To learn more about the Illinois Blockchain Initiative and other developments in blockchain, contact us.
Dentacoin is Using Blockchain to Shift the Focus of Dentistry from Treatment to Prevention.The rapid development of blockchain technology is poised to disrupt just about every corner modern healthcare. Predictive health and PHI security use cases are utilizing distributed ledger technology to store vital patient information in a secure, traceable and transferable ways. However, innovators and entrepreneurs alike are also starting to test applications in specific provider specialties. One such area is dental care, lead by the visionary DentaCoin team.Dentistry Cryptocurrency and BlockchainA visit to the dentist can be a hit or miss experience depending on the effort put into personal care. From a young age, people tend to start visiting the dentist at regular intervals to stay on top of issues that would otherwise compound in severity rather quickly if left untreated or unattended. Although dental diagnostic technology and everyday tools of the trade have evolved significantly, advancements in informatics infrastructure on the backend and progress to stem trends such as gum disease haven’t had as much luck in advancing. Cryptocurrency in particular is a notable, low hanging fruit type opportunity for blockchain to get a foothold in the dentistry without really rewriting its IT infrastructure by way of enabling innovative payment methods. Still, dentistry is one of the lowest risk areas of health care since it is rarely a life threatening situation, albeit commonplace procedures that are more severe often require surgical precision, hence the requirement of medical school for dentists. The other side of the argument is that teeth can be kept healthy and strong with basic, habitual preventative care. This is a far cry from the amount of work it takes for the rest of the human body to stay healthy and happy. How does blockchain fit into all this? It’s an excellent incentivization mechanism that can be used to increase proper hygiene and thus prevent common, yet destructive chronic conditions from wreaking havoc.Enter DentaCoin. The outfit has created a trusted blockchain platform that will support a community network for dentists and patients alike, which is scheduled to launch in the fall of 2017. This community allows for constant feedback, education and a strong community between dentists and patients. The platform with is designed to facilitate with a low barrier for entry an information and improve oral care. It’s architected as a “decentralized, highly secure database of all patient health records” where “health data will be highly protected, updatable and accessible exclusively by patients or by dentists, upon a given permission”.Additionally, DentaCoin has created a payment system with its new coin DCN token, which integrates cryptocurrency into the dentistry patient care model for the first time. Using DCN, patients can pay dentists directly for care, pay for medical insurance, pay for preventative care and purchase oral care products. Dentists benefit from participation immensely as well. Integrating with DCN will allow dentists and their practices to purchase standard industry equipment at a lower than average cost through the Dentacoin Trading platform.DentaCoin also is positioned to democratize the dentistry industry by providing patient mediated data functionality for patients to take control of who sees their records as well as the opportunity to be rewarded with DCN if they allow their medical data (once scrubbed of identity) to contribute to the trend analysis tools offered to participating dentists. This type of secure, immutable data collectively overtime evolves into a highly targeted and intuitive population health asset, which in turn cuts down on diagnostics.Even with all of these benefits, some dentists and patients might wonder why to make the switch to a new, untested system. DentaCoin provides an innovative and unexpectedly lucrative answer to this question. The company will provide a profit sharing opportunity to all of the holders of the DCN coin. In any financial year, the DentaCoin Foundation will use 50% of profits gained and invest them back into the community. That will increase the price of the coin and help any current holders of the currency. It ensures that value will rise over time as long as more people enter the network.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
BurstIQ – Blockchain Platform for Securing, Analyzing and Monetizing all of your PHI.With the integration of blockchain technology into healthcare well underway, B2C blockchain based startups are focusing intently on developing tools that facilitate ownership and provenance of personal health information (PHI). In this space, prevention is the name of the game, and there is no better way to prevent illness than precisely knowing what makes you, well, you.Colorado based BurstIQ “has solved two fundamental challenges that have, until now, prevented blockchain from being utilized in the healthcare space: support for large volumes of data and ensuring security of the underlying data.” The ecosystem includes an intuitive and easy to understand consumer facing product called Lifegraph, where a participant can consolidate all PHI and share what you want with who you want all the while delivering personalized wellness plans. What makes BurstIQ stand out is their marketplace, where you as an individual can license, sell, loan or even donate your PHI to established research networks on the other end. This kind of dedication to active matchmaking is a key incentive for consumer participation.Monetize Health Data on the BurstIQ MarketplaceBurstIQ is personalizing the next generation of healthcare by converging multiple technological sources of your health information into one singular place: The Health Singularity. BurstIQ is the marketplace and your data is the currency. How does tech like this presumably work?BurstIQ Goals:Improve Patient Satisfaction Improve Quality of Care & Outcomes Increase Market Shares Reduce Excessive Costs Build Brands That Shake Hands Target Research to Save on Costs & TimeThe BurstIQ marketplace is where individuals and businesses or research institutes can freely collaborate, reaching agreements together with the assistance from artificial intelligence. Engagements in the marketplace are supported by BurtIQ’s Healthwallet, which powers PHI data governance, compliance, security and permission rules. Other platform services include BurstChain, which is the backbone for rights management functionalities as well as managing consent contracts to permit access to patient-sensitive information, and LifeGraph. LifeGraph is able to cross-examine and manage information from multiple sources to create a road map of your health-data throughout a lifespan.Elements of the New Health Ecosystem:A.I. systems provide more precise insights about your health habits, and which ones are positively (and negatively) impacting long-term care results. Use remote patient monitoring and targeted testing, as well as immediate access to Physicians through telehealth consults. It’s your Virtual Clinic! Consumer focused health plans act to tailor wellness needs based upon home tests made available to participants Sensitive patient information is securely stored in personalized digital HealthWallets. Through the HealthWallet, your health metrics as defined by your LifeGraph determines the care you receive. For example: Primary Care Physicians can write and approve your prescription in exchange for BiQ tokens.BurstIQ is a beacon for blockchain HIT innovation that not only supports owning your PHI, but also having the tools to learn from it, which can be tremendously helpful when deciding what you want to do with it.Unquestionably, using blockchain technology to help gather and store patient data in one place improves treatment accuracy and redundant administrative costs. What remains to be seen from B2C blockchain HIT startups is the network effect of having the security, collaboration and incentive motivation to share PHI. In practice, it can help improve the accuracy and cost of clinical research, which could trickle down to affecting drug prices. The first litmus test though for this innovation fork in healthcare’s timeline is to what degree does all this technology will make any given citizen more accountable and engaged with their data.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
2017 Blockchain Conference Washington D.C..As virtual currencies soar past expectations and reach new heights, the interest in Blockchain technology grows. The implications are huge across the board. Diverse sectors are hoping to harness Blockchain technology’s potential to replicate successes seen in the financial services arena.2ND ANNUAL BLOCKCHAIN CONFERENCE WASHINGTON D.C. 2017The Harvard Business Review explains how this potential is already being explored in healthcare as a way to process transactions efficiently and securely. Estonia’s health care system is one such case study. It adopted Blockchain technology in response to a 2007 breach that left patient data vulnerable. This aggressive and innovative response is an example of how the technology can be applied to improve processes and reduce vulnerabilities in healthcare.To help decision-makers learn more about the technology and how it can be applied, the second annual Blockchain Conference in Washington, D.C., is being held July 28, 2017. The one-day event, which takes place at George Washington University, provides an opportunity for leaders in healthcare, government, finance, tech, venture capital, and logistics to meet and discuss Blockchain/DLT technology.It’s billed as a fast-paced conference that includes top speakers and offers attendants networking time to connect with each other. Here’s a review of some of the most important agenda items taking place at the D.C. Blockchain Conference:Where we stand with Blockchain technology todayThe first panel of the day, Blockchain State of Play, looks at the current marketplace and provides an evaluation of how things have changed over the past year to understand what the landscape looks like now, where it’s come from, and where it’s likely headed next.The resurgence (and rise) of virtual currencyA keynote will explore the resurgence of virtual currencies, coins, and token-based systems. Looking at the recent booms in Bitcoin and Ethereum, in particular, this session discusses what has driven prices up and sparked a lot of interest in Blockchain technology.A look at regulations and standardsLater, experts will provide an update on how regulations are impacting digital currency. Currently, innovation and adoption of Blockchain technology are outpacing laws and regulations, but this is likely to change in the near future.An Introduction to Initial coin offerings (ICOs)Learn about this crypto-financing technique, an unregulated method of fundraising for cryptocurrency venture that side-steps traditional capital-raising processes, and what are considered to be the pros and cons of this fast-evolving process.How Blockchain can be used for goodThe second keynote looks at how Blockchain is changing global development programs and explores its potential to be useful in other capacities. Experts agree the Blockchain could ameliorate such grand problems as poverty, hunger, and corruption, but exactly how to get there is still up for debate.Blockchain beyond financial servicesLearn more about how Blockchain technology can be used in capacities other than as a digital currency, such as transparent supply chains, secure transmission of patient data, and records management.Expert predictions for the short-term futureThere have been a lot of exciting developments in Blockchain technology during the past year, but what’s next? Close out the day at the conference by hearing Blockchain experts share their predictions on what’s ahead for this game-changing technology. They will offer an outlook on what to expect from Blockchain technology by 2020.Event organizers anticipate the 2017 conference will build on the success of last year’s inaugural Blockchain Conference in Washington, which had a diverse audience and impressive line-up of speakers. This list included representatives from Microsoft,  IBM, the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer’s Research, GWU, and the Federal Trade Commission.Some of the speakers lined up for this year’s conference include:Luis Carranza, Fintech Founder and CEO Susan Poole, Blockbridge Advisory Founder Tom Plunkett, Oracle Consulting Solutions Director Brendan Blumer, Block.one CEO Jack Shaw, Blockchain Executive Co-Founder and Executive Board MemberEarly adopters and developers of Blockchain technology hail it as the next big revolution in the way we handle transactions. If you want to get ahead of the curve and learn more about HIT Blockchain implementation, contact us.
Canadian Startup Peer Ledger Addressing Digital Identities with Blockchain.Peer Ledger is a Canadian blockchain software startup that specializes in identity management. Their primary current offering, Identity Bridge, links blockchain accounts to externally certified real-world identities. This real-to-digital identity mapping, according to the Peer Ledger vision, will bestow blockchain credentials with a trustworthiness that they lacked before this innovation. The company believes that trust-sensitive industries such as healthcare are an ideal fit for their solution. Peer Ledger recently teamed up with two leaders in the digital identity space to prove that it was possible to successfully map trusted, verified identities to otherwise anonymous blockchain accounts. In doing so, Peer Ledger believes they’ve helped pave the way for certain types of trust-sensitive software, such as clinical trial applications, to finally make full use of the blockchain platform.Ensuring trustworthy identities in the blockchainPeer Ledger sees itself as providing the missing piece in the project of establishing verified, trustworthy digital identities in the blockchain. Presently, applications built on the blockchain verify identities by matching pairs of private and public keys. However, because users can link any identity to their blockchain account, digital identities in the blockchain have a critical vulnerability when it comes to trust. Consequently, digital identities in the blockchain lack the reliability they need in industries such as healthcare, where a trustworthy digital identity is critical to the integrity of nearly every application. To bridge the trust gap, Peer Ledger makes use of the public key infrastructure (PKI) system to certify identities outside the blockchain before binding them to blockchain accounts. The result, according to the company, is that blockchain-based applications that take advantage of Peer Ledger’s Identity Bridge solution will now have verified, certified, trustworthy identities that users can count on in trust-sensitive industries such as healthcare.The Peer Ledger portalThe Peer Ledger portal has an interface for both admins and regular users. The admin interface primarily enables admins to issue and revoke mappings of certified digital identities to blockchain accounts. The standard user interface allows regular users to visit their security profiles and make updates to their certificate information, as well as other  fields.Recent proof-of-concept for healthcare applicationsPeer Ledger recently teamed up with digital identity standards provider SAFE-BioPharma and Synchronoss (NASDAQ:SNCR) to demonstrate through a proof-of-concept study that they could employ their solution to ensure the trustworthiness of the digital identities used in blockchain transactions. For example, clinical trials that are double-blind require known identities. However, prior to this proof-of-concept, it has been taken for granted that identities involved in blockchain transactions are anonymous. Therefore, it appeared that double-blind clinical trial transactions could not take place on the blockchain. Yet this study has shown that it’s possible to systematically link otherwise anonymous blockchain postings to proven identities, in this case SAFE-BioPharma compliant credentials. Further, the blockchain postings can remain anonymous for as long as necessary, such as for the duration of the clinical trial, before the system matches them to their verified external identities for the sake of regulatory compliance or clinical need.The future of digital identityPeer Ledger is building a new breed of identity management software designed to ensure the trustworthiness of digital identities attached to blockchain accounts. Their essential idea is to map externally certified identities to blockchain accounts whose identities would otherwise remain either anonymous or unreliable. Admins can perform the mappings, and users can update their certificates, through the Identity Bridge portal. This real-to-digital identity mapping, according to the Peer Ledger vision, will bestow blockchain credentials with a trustworthiness that they lacked up to this point. Peer Ledger teamed up with SAFE-BioPharma and Synchronoss for a proof-of-concept that successfully demonstrated that they could de-anonymize blockchain accounts to make certain trust-sensitive software, such as clinical trial applications, a viable option for blockchain-based platforms. According to the startup, not only the clinical trial space, but the trust-sensitive healthcare industry as whole, could make use of their demonstrated solution.
Female Blockchain Entrepreneurship in Healthcare.Women Entrepreneurs Focused on Solving Healthcare with BlockchainBlockchain is a technology that is open to all. It does not discriminate based on age or gender and is built around mathematical concepts and technology. It is behind the rise of crypto-currency tokens, which are the lifeblood of monetizing blockchain innovation. The industry young, and many new companies and founders with great ideas are entering and making a large impact. For that reason, many female founders are having a big impact on the blockchain industry by founding new companies and driving new ventures.Kat Kuzmeskas – CEO, SimplyVital HealthSimplyVital Health is a company that has a large impact on the budding blockchain healthcare sector. It is focused on data portability, tracking and analysis of healthcare data. It is already making a huge impact that is easy to use and that naturally integrates with legacy systems.Kat Kuzmeskas is one of the founders of SimplyVital Health. This impressive founder has a deep background in the health industry including working at the Yale New Haven Health System and earning a Masters in Public Health. Kuzmeskas understood the issues that small health providers face and how data portability could help them save time, costs and improve patient care. She then teamed up with co-founder and CTO Lucas Hendren to create the SimplyVital Health Solution.SimplyVital Health is a giant leap forward on the ability of companies, institutions and healthcare providers to track and manage patient information with 100% security. Of course, patient data must be kept private and secure according to HIPAA regulations. Fortunately, the blockchain ledger allows for a mathematical solution that prevents fraud and allows all exchanges of information to be pre-verified.The solution tracks each step that patients go through, from the symptoms they have to the time they enter their first provider to all of the care, procedures and medications they receive. This is important for several reasons. First of all, it records the interventions in a clear and easy to use system that should indicate to other medical providers what has worked and what is not working.  That helps later diagnoses.Secondly, it ensures that the interventions were done according to a medically determined standard of care. That means that insurance companies will have no way to deny claims of unnecessary procedures or excessive medications. Providers love this because it means they get paid faster and have full verification in case of any disputes.Thirdly, it creates a way for the government or the hospital to do a quick audit of a patient or patient’s records to see that all of the proper compliance standards are being followed. Audits are much quicker and less expensive. That is better for the government and the institution itself. Plus any changes in procedure may be easily programmed into the legacy system to guide providers in the future.SimplyVital Health was also built to integrate painlessly with legacy IT systems. That means providers will not need a long training period or expensive implementation costs. As SimplyVital Health continues to add more features and functions, more and more institutions are adopting the technology.Elaine Comeau- CEO PointNurseAnother company to look out for in the female led healthcare blockchain startup community is PointNurse. It is run Elaine Comeau who herself is a registered nurse. The firm helps home nurses to log their care, hours and interventions on the blockchain. This provides tremendous convenience and security. In addition to advocating for “out-of-hospital blockchains”, PointNurse envisions a “decentralized autonomous nursing organization” or “DANO,” that will make full of use of blockchain to disrupt and transform the multi-billion dollar nurse-staffing industry. This seed stage start-up is a player to watch in the future.Chrissa McFarlane- CEO, PatientoryLastly, a discussion in women driven blockchain entrepreneurship can not be complete without mentioning the recent, and ongoing success, of Chrissa McFarlane, CEO of Patientory. With a recent issuance of their ICO, Patientory secured $7.2 million in funding by making their token (PTOY) available to the public for purchase. The platform is designed to transfer tokens—PTOY—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patient.Where to buy PTOYIf you missed the Patientory ICO, not to worry. You can still purchase tokens on exchanges such as Liqui.The Patientory platform makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology and decentralizes data so that it distributed and HIPAA compliant. Patientory also has deployed a mobile app enables users to store, view and track their healthcare data using HIPAA-compliant blockchain technology.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
MedRec: Innovating Blockchain for Healthcare Data Management.MIT Media Lab’s MedRec is a blockchain-based healthcare data management solutionTheir central focus is on the Electronic Medical Record (EMR). MedRec aims to give patients access to, and control over, their EMR while facilitating and motivating medical research.The patient interfaceMedRec provides a user-friendly interface for patients to access their EMR. The interface includes notifications of any updates to the EMR. MedRec also enables users to decide “when, and with whom, they share their data.” Patients will have the power to use the MedRec interface to grant a guardian, family member, new doctor or any other participant the rights to view their data. Furthermore, patients may share information regarding a specific subset of their EMR (such as data relating to a specific health condition) while keeping the rest of their EMR private. MedRec gives patients a high level of granular control over their data, and can even isolate individual fields for independent sharing or restricting.MedRec as a “Database Gatekeeper”MedRec does not store any actual medical records on their blockchain network. Rather, MedRec stores “aggregate data pointers” that only reference the medical records, which remain in their existing databases. These “pointers,” or references to the actual medical data, are at the heart of MedRec’s approach and are aggregated into patient-provider relationship units. As viewership permissions for the actual medical data change, these pointers and relationships get updated, allowing or restricting access to the medical data accordingly. The entire process operates through their “Database Gatekeeper layer.” MedRec maintains that its blockchain model, centered around their “Database Gatekeeper layer,” alleviates many common concerns that would otherwise arise without it. Perhaps most importantly, it allows providers to keep their existing databases and continue to use them as they do now. This not only makes participation in the MedRec network all the easier and affordable for providers, but may facilitate HIPAA compliance.Motivating medical researchThe MedRec team maintains that the medical research that is essential for helping researchers and providers find new cures and treatments is greatly hampered by the present lack of access to sufficient medical data. Although some clinical trial and other data does “trickle through,” there is a pressing need for more data that is currently inaccessible.MedRec hopes to provide a solution to this problem by introducing a “data economy.” In return for providing the “computational resources” that support the MedRec blockchain network, medical researchers and other participants will receive “census level, anonymized metadata” that is useful, presumably, for their research. Of course, patients and providers (“the data producers”) will have a say in how much of this metadata they release to the researchers and other participants (“the data consumers.”)The future of a blockchain EMRMedRec plans to perform ongoing usability and feasibility testing of their system with both patients and providers. This process will involve partnering with local healthcare providers to test the efficiency of their prototype. Once ready, they intend to release their framework as open source software. However, they are firmly committed to the principle that to use the system is not to own the data.Unlike most, if not all, of the other nascent blockchain healthcare projects, MedRec is not a company. Nonetheless, their ambitions are similar to a host of startup companies in this emerging space. In terms of their prospects for success, their affiliation with MIT certainly plays in their favor both in terms of instilling trust in participants and in terms of providing access to the university’s technical and human resources. Furthermore, their model’s Database Gatekeeper layer has a number of advantages, noted above, that might make them especially attractive to providers with cost, integration and regulatory concerns. It is perhaps more difficult to predict how providers and patients will respond to their model’s “data economy” approach, although it does appear to provide a genuine incentive to medical researchers.Contact us for more information on blockchain healthcare startups.
Simply Vital Health – Blockchain Fueled Value Based Care.Simply Vital Health is using blockchain technology to clear a path for patient careData portability, track-ability and analysis is continually a problem in the healthcare sector. These deficiencies lead to lost time and money as well as deficiencies in patient care.  Fixing these problems will improve the overall experience and wellness of patients while saving time and money for hospitals and private providers alike. Fortunately, Simply Vital Health has developed a blockchain based based solution that is simple, easy to use and integrates with existing systems.Founder of Simply Vital Health, Katherine Kuzmeskas, MPH, has a strong passion for patient centric quality care. She saw opportunity for the makings of Simply Vital Health while working at the Center for Musculoskeletal Care. She states: “I heard physicians and nurses say over and over again how they wanted to be able to see how their patients were recovering after they left the hospital. Hearing directly from the clinical team that they wanted a more direct connection to their patients was excellent validation.”Virtually every provider is concerned with following clinically validated, government and insurance approved care plans to assure that the care will not be denied for payment. Simply Vital Health provides an online tool powered by blockchain technology that monitors and records providers as they administer every step along the value chain. If a provider forgets a step, they can quickly check the platform to see which process has been overlooked. One of blockchains key features, an immutable audit trail, enables providers a sense of quality assurance. If the government or insurance provider seeks to deny coverage, the process can be quickly and securely shared to confirm that all of the appropriate steps were taken.  This level of automated efficiency allows providers more time to focus on their patients, and less time worrying about record keeping.Similarly, providers are constantly concerned with the cost of care and revenue associated with care. Without careful monitoring, costs can balloon out of hand and cause major losses.  Simply Vital Health provides an extremely valuable tool that tracks payments and processes closely.  It includes the prospective payment programs and helps providers understand the true financials. This data is securely held with blockchain technology in an easy to use and understand format as well.Providers are often met with intense data demands from industry associations, internal efficiency standards, clinical best practices and of course government and insurance payment demands. Simply Vital Health allows for tracking of CMS programs including MACRA and APMs through its simple tool. It conducts advanced analytics and also intensive monitoring. Physicians and provider management will have a much better window into their operations. The tool creates custom reports and can be shared internally and externally through the highly secure blockchain format.Without these reports or data availability, audits and denials of payment are common. Institutions need to prepare for these consequences and take preemptive action to avoid the pain and cost of an audit or denial. Without a sophisticated tool that can access the correct data rapidly, an institution may be in store for a painful process, even if they have done everything correctly.Best of all, these monitoring and tracking systems integrate seamlessly into existing legacy software systems. While a back-end system run entirely on the blockchain is theoretically possible, it is still not a reality for almost any health care provider. For that reason, Simply Vital Health recognized that it would have to produce a tool that integrates with existing system. Their blockchain solution is easy to input as an add-on to the most popular existing systems. In addition, the company can work with providers to customize the solution to the individual demands of an institution.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes some of the leading companies employing blockchain technology in the health care sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the sector. For more information, please contact us.  A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Healthcoin – blockchain-enabled platform for diabetes prevention.Diabetes is one of the biggest challenges in health care today. Due to changing diet and lifestyle patterns, more and more people are contracting this disease. In addition, the personal and public costs of the disease are growing rapidly. Fortunately, a company called Healthcoin has emerged to fight this disease using a combination of incentives and technology to influence the choice people make. They hope to prevent new diabetes cases and reduce the symptoms of current patients. Blockchain is a powerful new technology (used in the revolutionary Bitcoin monetary system), that creates an unbreakable mathematical string to store and exchange information. Healthcoin has taken advantage of this technology to create a system that aims to radically reduce the effects of diabetes.The cost of diabetes is simply exploding. According to one study, the global cost of the disease exceeds $827 billion dollars and 3.7 million lives annually. As the average age of Americans and people around the world gradually increases, more diabetes cases are expected as people become more sedative. That will increase continue to increase costs. One study estimates that a quarter of all adults in America will have diabetes by 2050.Personal costs of diabetes are also huge. The monthly costs of insulin ranges from hundreds to thousands of dollars. Additionally, individuals with diabetes find that they are more likely to face other injuries ranging from cardiovascular issues to blood problems to constant nagging lower body injuries. All of these issues cause more use of the health care system which means more out of pocket expenses as well as a higher overall insurance bill.However, Healthcoin has a revolutionary incentive system that tracks all of a person’s lifestyle choices. As they continue to make good choice, they submit biomarkers (like heart rate, weight, sugar level etc.) to a database run on the blockchain. Healthcoin’s algorithm then calculates the change or improvement in the health of the individual. Based on their improvement, they earn a certain amount of Healthcoins. Healthcoins can be used to decrease insurance costs, recognize achievement and demonstrate improvement with health care providers, friends and family alike.The key to the innovation is that the results of the progress are stored on the blockchain. The user and Healthcoin have complete control over who has access to the information. That means that the key personnel including doctors, family, insurers and the individual patient will have access in an unbreakable database. The patient may also elect to share the information with friends, an employer, the government or public health organization using the information for research. The data can be uploaded, stored and shared from anywhere in the world but is also completely secure using the blockchain technology.The incentive structure of the Healthcoin system also creates a strong impetus for the patient to make the right choices to improve their health. Those include exercising, eating right, increased everyday activity and better mental health. With the Healthcoin system, these choices are immediately reflected in biomarkers which are tracked closely. Improvement over time leads to a reduction of medical costs as well as a reduction in the costs the insurer will bill. Patients seeking to reduce their medical costs would be wise to make the healthy choices that reduce the symptoms of diabetes and are reflected in their biomarkers.Healthcoin’s revolutionary solution and technology are continuing to gain traction. While the firm is still small, its progress may help to tackle the serious problem of diabetes.Block Chain Healthcare Review is the leading site for understanding and discovering blockchain based healthcare companies. The site helps interested experts and community members to discover emerging companies, technology, personnel and news. For more information, please contact us.—–You might also like:Abid Hospital in Pakistan Accepts PakCoin Cryptocurrency How Gem is building a blockchain healthcare network
How Gem is building a blockchain healthcare network.How much do you know about your medical identity? You know you’re generally in good health. You know your height and your weight. You know if you have any chronic conditions. But can you remember how many tetanus shots you’ve had? Do you know which percentile your height placed you in for each year of life? Could you tell your doctor the exact amount of time you’ve been taking a prescription medication to the day?These are the details that make up your “medical identity.” A data scientist would call these details “longitudinal data.” Longitudinal data consists of hundreds of data points that are updated over the course of your life to paint the picture of your health. Each time you go to the doctor’s office, you add data to your longitudinal data set. Medical scribes and your primary care doctor carefully update your file and tuck it away amongst all your records.But there is a problem with this system. It is slow, cumbersome and practically unsharable. If you change doctors you have to go through length processes to ensure that your records arrive at your new doctor. If disaster strikes and you need your medical records right away, precious time is wasted hunting them down.The team at Gem, startup based in Venice California, is seeking to apply blockchain thinking to these data issues that are rampant in the healthcare sector. While Gem wishes to expand their process to include blockchain-based problem solving for all industries, they are beginning by tackling the issue of “patient identity” in the healthcare system.Gem seeks to connect all the disparate arms of the healthcare industry by creating a communal healthcare ecosystem. The key to their system is that they include a heavily patient-driven component. They have partnered with Phillips to begin their work on making patients active contributors and keepers of their medical identity.Their system works upon a series of nested systems that are all recorded and enforced using the blockchain ledger concept. On the patient level, mobile apps can record wellness data (think exercise apps like Strava, or your Apple Health App). Hospitals continue to collect and keep patient clinical records. Insurance companies continue to keep records of their claims. While these systems are now separated, Gem’s system seeks to create an ecosystem where these records can interact.This ecosystem is called the “Gem Health Network,” and is intended to create a standard for healthcare data that does not compromise security or privacy.The theft of healthcare  data has become a pressing issue for insurance companies and other medical enterprises. In December, the firm Quest Enterprises lost 34,000 files of patient data in a hacking attack, including their names, addresses, and phone numbers as well as further longitudinal data. Quest patient systems are relied on by many medical professionals even though their online platform is not encrypted.Gem’s blockchain application seeks to add security to patient information in two ways. Firstly, “permissioned blockchains” can control who has access to certain sensitive information. Additionally the identity of both parties in blocked, ensuring anonymity for sensitive healthcare data in the event that a hacker infiltrates the system. They can never come away with a way to link patent information to the patient themselves. Additionally, the shared ledger in which every event is timestamped cannot be tampered with. There are thousands of safeguards throughout the system (Gem’s Health Network) which are constantly updated in real time.Gem’s concept for a healthcare web has gained significant traction. They were rated the second most popular business development of the year by Bitcoin Magazine. They have raised 10.4 million in Series A funding so far and enjoy the support of companies like Capital One and KEC Ventures.
Blockchain Opportunity Summit 2016 Recap – Smart Contracts.The Blockchain Opportunity Summit was held in Manhattan recently; industry leaders and blockchain visionaries were on hand to discuss the technology’s implications for diverse firms representing many sectors of the economy, from finance to real estate to healthcare. This was represented in the opening panel discussion, which featured Judd Bagley of Overstock.com, Ragnar Lifthrasir, Founder of the International Blockchain Real Estate Association, and Laura Shin of Forbes, one of the most prominent journalists covering blockchain technologies today. The conversation was lively and informative, bringing the industry leaders in attendance up to speed on the importance of recognizing blockchain technologies as relevant to all industries, not simply those in the financial sector.One of the most exciting technologies developed with the underlying blockchain infrastructure is that of smart contracts. The Blockchain Opportunity Summit devoted an entire panel to smart contracts. Ron Quaranta, EVP of Loyyal and Mark Smith, CEO of Symbiont provided their experiences with smart contracts and their utility for any industry, especially those with extensive regulatory oversight. Smart contracts have the potential to drastically reduce the regulatory and overall paperwork burden in healthcare. They provide an exceedingly private and secure environment for the verification of service fulfillment, as well as creating an indestructible record of actions for insurers and clients alike.One of the final panels of note dealt with the current legal environment pertaining to blockchain technologies. Though blockchain implementations like Bitcoin have faced strict legal scrutiny, panelists argued that the increased attention of federal agencies on blockchain technologies adds to the legitimacy and prevalence of the framework, and that it is up to industry leaders now to collaborate with these agencies to develop industry-friendly regulations going forward.
What to expect at next year’s APAC Blockchain Conference.Next spring, technologists, business process experts, and forward-thinking industry leaders from around the world will convene at the University of Technology Sydney for the Asia-Pacific (APAC) Blockchain Conference 2017. Developed in partnership with the Australian Digital Currency Commerce Association (ADCCA), this two-day event aims to “look beyond the hype” of blockchain technology and to focus instead on real opportunities for cost-saving implementations across a broad array of industries. An impressively diverse panel of experts will weigh in, not only on the disruptive potential for blockchain technologies to improve business processes, but also on the various obstacles that remain to be overcome before widespread adoption and realistic implementation can begin.Although this conference is not specifically focused on the healthcare sector, there are a number of things on the agenda to be excited about for those interested in healthcare applications of blockchain technology. The first day of the conference is a plenary session in which panelists and keynote speakers will address such topics as:The latest real-world applications of smart contracts, highlighting those that move beyond mere regulatory compliance, product tracing, and service management. Design challenges currently hindering widespread blockchain adoption, including network integrity, distributed power, security, and rights preservation. The emerging need for skilled workers to make sure organizations remain competitive in the coming age of blockchain disruption.Ways blockchain technology may reshape local and global economic markets and the way private industry responds to the new contours of supply and demand in a world of distributed process automation. The regulatory framework necessary for organizations to embrace blockchain solutions and the responsibility of corporate entities to ensure adequate internal controls over open source technologies to reduce risk exposure in highly regulated industries.On day two, there will be two separate streaming sessions offered, and participants will have their choice of which to attend. Stream 1 focuses on banking and financial applications, while Stream 2–the one more likely to appeal to healthcare organizations–focuses on government, smart contracts, and industry applications. There are a number of topics in this latter stream that sound promising:Blockchain solutions for verifying and storing medical records and proving identities. Real-world security and anti-fraud applications, including some that may be relevant to regulatory compliance in healthcare services for protecting sensitive patient data. The potential for distributed data processing to reduce or eliminate human links in organizational structures–including, presumably, in healthcare organizations and those they do business with, such as insurance companies and government oversight agencies.Of course, we’ll be monitoring the conference proceedings with great interest, so be sure to stay in touch. Meanwhile, those interested in attending in person can find all the registration details here.
Smart Health Profile: A Solution to Medicaid Churning.Recently the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) embarked upon their “Blockchain Challenge,” which solicited proposals on blockchain as a tool with which to improve healthcare IT.The smart health profileFifteen proposals were selected as finalists, including a whitepaper by the Blockchain Futures Lab titled “A Blockchain Profile for Medicaid Applicants and Recipients.” The paper introduces a blockchain-based innovation, the smart health profile, which would use tools such as tokens, wallets, smart contracts and oracle services “as a foundation for rethinking the way that individual health and financial information is accessed and used.”The whitepaper applies the principles behind the smart health profile specifically to the problem of “churning” within Medicaid, whereby complex means-tested programs of eligibility, repetitive re-qualifications, and lengthy waiting periods yield a “constant exit and reentry of beneficiaries.” As a result of this turnover, the average adult within the Medicaid system is covered for only four-fifths of the year. Further, access to care is lost, poor health outcomes are more likely, and care providers must dedicate time to constantly checking recipient eligibility.The proposal argues that a blockchain-based smart health profile and streamlined infrastructure would provide solutions to the obstacles responsible for churning, including:distributed data sources a high need for simultaneous privacy and transparency verification requirements a need for intelligent assistance throughout the processIndeed, as a distributed ledger technology blockchains’ dynamic record would provide a truly distributed identity in enabling on-demand access to specific information, regardless of where the information may reside. The aggregation and verification of data from an array of sources, in combination with a smart query system, would then enable the profile to “act as a broker that can answer questions…as the need arises.” And when combined with artificial intelligence, that information may allow the smart profile to remind a user and/or health professional regarding medication refills, contraindications, high-risk behaviors and Medicaid eligibility changes. All the while, the profile would present a pseudonymous profile, meaning that only those provided with a private key would be able to unlock the identity of its subject.Essentially, the smart pseudonymous profile would utilize zero-knowledge proofs and “diverse data streams that are verified through consensus oracle networks,” to build a more efficient, effective Health IT system.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
ONC Blockchain Challenge Winner: MIT’s Experimental Learning Proposal.As part of the President’s Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI), in August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began their “Blockchain Challenge.” The ONC challenge solicited proposals on how blockchain may be utilized to improve healthcare IT and to enable a “new era of clinical care through research, technology, and policies that empower patients, researchers, and providers to work together toward the development of individualized care.”Of the more than 70 proposals received, 15 were selected as finalists. Among those selected was Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and DataProject, a whitepaper by less succinctly named PharmOrchard of MIT’s Experimental Learning “MIT FinTech: Future Commerce.”MIT’s proposal explored threats PMI data’s security, confidentiality, integrity and availability and presented he OPAL/Enigma project3 as a strategy towards mitigating those challenges. The OPAL/Enigma project3 creates a peer-to-peer network based on highly optimized multi-party computation and secret-sharing via a permissioned blockchain that records and controls access through smart contracts and digital identities. OPAL thereby enabling complete privacy in analyzing jointly stored data, increasing interoperability. In sum, the OPAL/Enigma project3 uses blockchain technology to resolve the tension between the creation of a secure environment for stakeholder Electronic Health Information (EHI) and the necessity of efficiency in sharing that sensitive information. And, as a secure infrastructure that doesn’t sacrifice the ability of exchangeability of data, OPAL would be a potential tool providing:resolution of infrastructural matters, such as time and cost  to the analysis, storage and manipulation of health information; a better framework for precision medicine trials; the development of more comparative trials; a more cost-effective development of drugs; and the development of more effective treatments to patients.The proposal focuses on the OPAL system as a platform for the creation of accessible (yet confidential) databases of patient information at scale, and the ability to utilize information for expansive and nuanced adaptive clinical medical trials. However, it also notes that the system would, on an individual level, allow for a more holistic treatment of patients via a shared medical history.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
ONC Blockchain Winner: Accenture Proposal.This past August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began a “Blockchain Challenge.” Namely, they solicited white papers on the potential uses of blockchain technology in health IT to address blockchain’s potential contributions in the “privacy, security, and scalability challenges of managing electronic health records and resources.”ONC Blockchain Challenge Whitepaper Review: AccentureOf the more than 70 proposals, 15 were chosen based on multiple factors, including:the approach towards market viability; its creativity; the ability to inform and foster transformative change; the potential to support a number of national health objectives; and the potential to advance the flow of information.Among the ONC Challenge finalists was an eleven-page proposal by Accenture. Accenture’s proposal, titled Blockchain: Securing a New Health Interoperability Experience, aims at improving patient outcomes and interoperability via the integration of blockchain’s distributed ledger technology with existing IT systems. The proposal further focused on three specific applications “relevant to the mission of the ONC.”Secure and trusted care recordsCreating secure healthcare records into “an electronic chain of events, while preserving the provenance and integrity of the records.” Using access and control permissions in conjunction with solutions such as tokenization, pseudonymization or masking technologies, privacy and security of records would be improved.Identity ProofingStrengthening identity proofing, as well as linking between identities, by preserving a transparent record of “the declared identities of both patients and healthcare professionals.” In maintaining complete record integrity using the distributed ledger feature, auditability would be increased.  Therefore, healthcare fraud would more be more likely to be recognized by patients and providers, and then brought to light.Patient ConsentEmpowering patients by securing their decisions and directives within the secure healthcare record. If patient consent statements, access control decisions and directives were captured in an immutable blockchain, then healthcare professionals would be able to trust those statements and act on them accordingly.While the paper acknowledged that blockchain may serve as a cohesive force within healthcare’s complex data ecosystem, it asserted that blockchain “must be additive” and should not “invalidate” or “minimize” existing technology. Accenture further states that it “enthusiastically” supports the future of blockchain technology in the healthcare realm, and believes it to be a positive force in solving current healthcare industry challenges.If you’d like to learn more, feel free to contact us.
Review of Healthcare Startups focused on Blockchain.The revolutionary nature of blockchain technology in storing data and intellectual properties is not limited to the banking and credit card industries, not by a long shot. Health providers and insurers are moving to blockchain platforms aggressively; the inherently safe nature of blockchain creates a secure haven for data as sensitive as medical records and statistics.Legal ramifications of data breaches: apologies don’t work anymore.Medical records by their very nature are private and sensitive. As is medical research and technology. More and more, companies with security breaches and data theft are being held responsible for that data loss, the consequences can be financially devastating.Enter Blockchain.Blockchain is a technology that arose from the Bitcoin dissemination worldwide. While bitcoin is both fascinating and unstable, the real take-away from bitcoin was the system designed to guarantee the security of all bitcoin transactions globally: Blockchain.How does blockchain work?A simple explanation of how blockchain works is that whatever data or information you are storing is sent down a line of thousands (even millions) of nodes. Each separate node has a kernel or piece of the information needed to create the whole. No single node has enough information for a hacker or data breach to make any sense of. Pair with that “security in numbers” concept, the encryption of each node to protocols different from the next, and you have a system guaranteed to be safeHealth companies are sitting up and taking notice.In the years 2016 alone, multiple healthcare companies have started with blockchain as their primary data protection platform.What to take away from blockchain technology?It is an asset to the medical field at every level. Every day we hear of more sensitive data being hacked by by some nation state intent on getting their hands on private information. Companies are now being held accountable for their data losses and breaches. The health industry needs to implement blockchain tech to protect their masses of sensitive data as quickly as possible. Myriad start-ups are responding to that need with blockchain platforms and secure infrastructures.When you are ready to learn more please contact us
Distributed: Health Inaugural Blockchain Conference for the Healthcare Industry.On October 3rd, technology and healthcare industry leaders converged in Nashville, Tennessee for Distributed Health’s first ever Healthcare Blockchain Conference. The event drew worldwide attention and offered cutting edge insights regarding the breakthrough blockchain trend in healthcare. The conference included an impressive lineup of keynote speakers, a 24 hour blockchain solution competition that unloaded over $30,000 in prize payouts, a Blockchain 101 course, and professional networking opportunities for those in attendance. The event appropriately took place in heart of Nashville, Tennessee, a world-renowned leader in the healthcare industry and home to 18 publicly traded companies.Global Healthcare Blockchain ConferenceThe event has been covered by several leading publications and media outlets and has received recognition for its premiere presentation of issues  to block chain in healthcare. Productive Edge released an article directly following the event based on the conference’s performance offering encouragement to healthcare-technology professionals and hopefuls. Their publication listed observations that included establishing the credibility of the industry and the urgency for knowledgeable blockchain technologists needed to balance the supply and demand scale.Blockchain in Healthcare HackathonThe conference also held great rewards for up and coming developers who were awarded for their project submissions in the 24 hour Hackathon that was held October 1st-2nd. Veripharm took first place in the competition, winning $12,500 in BTC for their pharmaceutical supply accountability tracking blockchain application. HealthySELFIE, an eHealth wallet app, won $8,500 in travel, while others won lesser prize packages. Complete project submissions from the Hackathon have been posted by Distributed: Health online, where visitors can connect with applicants and support their favorites.Industry professionals can look forward to more healthcare relevant blockchain events, conferences and contests to take place in the future as this trend continues to take off and create interest.
Healthureum Aims to Cut Healthcare Costs with Smart Contracts.Healthureum’s aims include these:To use the Ethereum blockchain and smart contracts to increase the interoperability and efficiency of healthcare services. To incorporate a token-based payment system, which will also be used to reward referrals and second opinions. To give patients ownership of and access to their medical data. To secure patient data cryptographically. To bring “S3” (standardization, scalability, and social responsibility) to healthcare services.Simplifying paymentThe most distinctive feature of Healthureum’s plan is the integration of payment tokens and healthcare information in the same system. WELL also uses tokens for payment between healthcare providers, but the token system is its primary focus.Healthureum aims at a strong set of healthcare information features as well as a payment system in a single blockchain. It aims at providing a “complete supporting ecosystem” for providers, not just a method of small-scale payments. A major aim of the token system is to facilitate cross-border services by making payment direct, avoiding international processing fees and currency conversions.The token is called the Healthureum, abbreviated HHEM. The HHEM will be the exclusive means of payment within the network. A Token Generation Event (TGE) ran in December 2017 to seed the system. It excluded a number of countries, among them the United States, Japan, and China.Making health data available and secureParticipating patients will have their personal, medical, and emergency data all stored in encrypted form on a single platform. Large data files, such as high-resolution images, would make the blockchain unmanageably large, so they will be stored elsewhere, with access through encrypted links.The system uses permission layers to control access, so that participants can read only the information that they’re authorized for. It promises instant access, so that the information is available in emergencies. Specialists will be allowed to see a subset of the patient’s data in order to provide a second opinion.Naturally, patients want to know that the people treating them and getting referrals are qualified. This can be an issue if they have a medical emergency in an unfamiliar place. Healthureum states that it will confirm that all providers in its network are legally qualified. The patient will be able to see a referred doctor’s credentials through the blockchain.Medical researchSome features of Healthureum aim at facilitating medical research. Patients who aren’t actively participating in medical trials can contribute their anonymized medical data. When they do this, they’re granting permission only for research purposes. Fraud in medical trials is a concern, since there can be financial incentives to make a treatment appear more successful than it was. Since the blockchain is safe against tampering, it guards against falsification of data.Future plansWhere is Healthureum going from here? In 2018, it plans to work with two pilot hospitals to implement and test its standardized data framework. It will test the alpha and beta versions of its data systematization application and gather data and credentials for doctors in the test program.After making any necessary fixes to the code and confirming regulatory compliance, the program will expand to five hospitals, adding the initial implementation of referrals and consultation. In 2019 it plans to add philanthropic activities and research programs.The biggest challenge which any healthcare blockchain faces is reaching a critical mass of adoption. To be useful to patients, it has to give them access to a large number of facilities and doctors. Healthureum is staking its hopes on the combination of flexible, secure information and a payment system in the same blockchain. If enough facilities adopt it, it could be a success.If you’re looking to learn more about blockchain developments for healthcare, contact us to become part of the conversation.
Healthbase Revolutionizes Healthcare Research Through Blockchain.
Hyperledger Pushes Forward Advancements in Healthcare.Hyperledger is an open source collaboration involving blockchain developers and big businesses. Hosted by The Linux Foundation, this growing community is pushing the boundaries of blockchain development with a wide range of projects. As you’ve no doubt gathered, blockchain apps are transforming the way in which we deal with data across a wide range of business sectors and the area of healthcare will no doubt benefit greatly from the current developments in this area.Why blockchain applications are a step forward for healthcare data managementThe move from traditional distributed database systems to blockchain distributed ledger systems will have far reaching effects that will benefit patients and medical professionals alike.DecentralizationWhen a user accesses a blockchain ledger, there is no obvious clue that the data is not centrally located. Blockchain gives the illusion of a centralized system, but in reality, the data is distributed across many different locations. This allows for greater collaboration, and all data is synchronized immediately. So a doctor, staff in a hospital, and the patient can all update the data held, yet no one individual can claim ownership of the overall system, be this the hospital or a third party intermediary. Therefore, there is no ultimate reliance on one single system. When all data is located in one place, a failure of that system can be catastrophic, especially in the healthcare business when there are literally lives at stake.A clear audit trail for accountabilityWhen using blockchain technology, an audit trail is created and cannot be manipulated. This makes it highly reliable. Additionally, a block can only be altered by the owner of that block, and so it is easy to find out with whom particular data originated, and who has changed it. Data can be validated, and so can be reused as a verified reliable source.Data is very secure and so privacy is assuredMedical records are highly sensitive. When a doctor records data regarding the condition of a patient, it is expected that the data is entirely confidential. While measures are always taken to protect such sensitive information, blockchain adds a very high level of security into the equation. All data is encrypted, and can only be decrypted when a user holds the private key to do so.The application of blockchain ledger technology within the industryIt’s not just the storage of patient records that can benefit from these new technologies. Blockchain developers for healthcare are working on many different aspects of the business to implement these technologies across a broad range of areas. For instance, insurance claim processing and research sectors. Insurance claims will be easier to audit, data will be more easily accessible by involved parties and fraud detection will be improved. Claims will therefore go through faster which of course will be of benefit to those who have put in a claim. With a higher level of fraud detection, the number of fraudulent claims will be reduced, and so policy prices could well fall. Data gathering for research will also improve, giving greater opportunities for study and advancement.
Luna DNA, a Blockchain-Funded Community Genomic Project.Enter Luna DNA, another interesting turn in the healthcare industry.What is Luna DNA?Luna DNA is “a genomic and medical research database powered by blockchain.” Luna DNA takes a community-based approach to gathering and sharing medical data. Traditional medicine often takes samples and other information while giving little back, a state of affairs heavily criticized for example in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, where despite having their mother’s cells used throughout modern medicine, the children and other relatives received nothing in return. While medical laws try to protect individuals from unwanted medical procedures and breaches of privacy, these laws can also act against the interests of people, giving no or little incentive to contribute their DNA and medical information. Luna DNA strives to undo this unbalance by giving community members Luna Coins, digital currency, in exchange for sharing their information. This give and take system then entitles recipients to receive assistance information in turn.Roots in Genomic ResearchLuna DNA has its roots in genomic research, where useful information often depends on a cross-section of samples. Without samples to compare, genomic research quickly becomes irrelevant, even impossible. CEO and Co-Founder Bob Kain and President and Co-Founder Dawn Barry both have roots in Illumina, a global genomics company working in everything from healthcare to agriculture. While working at Illumina and in other industry- positions, Barry and Kain saw firsthand the benefits of genomics together with the challenges facing researchers and consumers alike. They wanted to find some way to incentivize individuals to share their information, because the more information available, the better the research results. The better the research results, the more consumers should be able to expect in return. Thus, Luna DNA was born.Why Blockchain?Cryptocurrency like Bitcoin and Luna DNA’s Luna Coins represent a new way to hold and keep data secure. In the case of Luna Coins, the community invests, members of community hold their coins, and this information is available to all parties, keeping business transparent while keeping each individual member’s information secure. In many ways, a business like Luna DNA is a prime example of when and why cryptocurrency is so important. You want everyone (at least everyone in the community) to help guard your data, so that it will be impossible for someone to counterfeit or change what you have stored in your ledger. At the same time, you want the details including your ownership to be kept private via privileged encryption, so that not just anyone can see the details.Considering the stated aim of Luna DNA, to hold highly personal information in a shared database where everyone benefits in a mutually understood way, blockchain is the perfect technology partner for this mission. Luna DNA successfully raised $2 million dollars in ICO capital last year. On a practical level as well as a symbolic one, blockchain works for this business.Blockchain and the Future of HealthcareLooking ahead to the future of Luna DNA, of Luna Coins, and blockchain tech in general, one can see a trend developing, a trend toward decentralized funding and greater community involvement on all levels. As healthcare continues to become more consumer-driven, with secure medical records access online and on-demand, funding and investing will have to evolve keep up. Only time will tell, of course, but savvy companies and savvy investors will do well to pay attention these and other opportunities as they arise. Times are definitely changing.For more information about blockchain funding in the healthcare industry, contact us today.
VitalHub – blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider for mental health.Toronto, Ontario-based VitalHub is a blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider. Primarily serving mental health and long-term care communities, VitalHub’s software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform is designed to interconnect existing healthcare systems and data repositories through secure interoperability solutions. In 2017, VitalHub acquired EHR-provider HI Next (owner of TREAT), and healthcare platform-provider B Sharp. Together these acquisitions significantly expanded VitalHub’s offering and customer base. On January 11th, 2018, the company announced that it was officially entering the blockchain-based healthcare technology marketplace with plans to focus on blockchain-powered solutions that bring greater interoperability to the healthcare ecosystem.TechnologyVitalHub maintains that the rapidly growing blockchain-based IT solution marketplace presents a unique opportunity for properly positioned healthcare solution providers. As blockchain-powered platforms begin to reshape the healthcare IT landscape in 2018, VitalHub argues that it has four complementary strengths that position it for success in the blockchain-based healthcare solution marketplace: extensive in-house expertise; a management team seasoned in scaling global healthcare businesses; a large pre-existing customer base; and an IT team highly experienced in building innovative healthcare applications. As VitalHub enters the blockchain-based solution marketplace, it is positioning itself as a “Blockchain as a Service (BaaS)” provider addressing the challenge of interoperability “across the continuum of care.”Partnerships and acquisitionsVitalHub plans to seek partnerships with “global consulting groups” to help spread blockchain-based solutions throughout the global healthcare sector. In addition to these strategic partnerships, VitalHub aims to significantly accelerate its growth through mergers and acquisitions, a process that is already “successfully underway.” On March 24, 2017, VitalHub announced its intention to acquire two healthcare IT companies: HI Next and B Sharp Technologies. On October 5th, 2017, VitalHub further announced that it had finalized the B Sharp acquisition; and on December 22nd, 2017, VitalHub announced a “definitive agreement” to acquire HI Next.HI NextHI Next is the owner of TREAT, a fully hosted, web-based EHR and healthcare coordination platform used by more than 80 healthcare providers in North America. The TREAT integrated solution includes “over 100 clinical assessment tools” spanning a wide range of sectors including primary care, mental and behavioral health, and community care.B Sharp TechnologiesToronto-based B Sharp Technologies, founded in 1998, primarily provides EHR, clinical documentation and case management solutions for health, community care and social services organizations. Their solutions specifically address mental health, cardiology, specialty care, “complex continuing care,” long term care and pharmacy. In addition to their solutions, B Sharp provides business consulting and custom development services. B Sharp has more than 40 customers across Canada.TeamThe VitalHub executive team includes President and CEO Dan Matlow, who formerly held the same executive leadership position at Medworxx Solution Inc., a patient-throughput management solution provider co-founded by VitalHub’s VP of Mobile Technology, Andre Vandenberk. VitalHub’s CFO and Executive VP Brian Goffenberg, also from Medworxx, previously held financial management positions at Philips Lifeline, DWL Inc. and Delrina Corp. Peter Catford, HI Next Principal, is joining VitalHub as Chief Strategist.CompanyVitalHub, publicly traded as VHI on the TSX Venture Exchange, first established itself as a technology platform for developing mobile health (mHealth) solutions. The company maintains that their “platform provides the control, security, privacy and consistency essential in the healthcare industry.” With applications already ranging from clinical care to medical research, the mHealth platform provider is now expanding into blockchain-based solutions. According to the VitalHub team, a lack of interoperability among healthcare stakeholders has been stifling progress across the entire healthcare ecosystem. In response, VitalHub plans to develop and sell blockchain-powered interoperability solutions. VitalHub’s long-term strategic mission is to secure a global leadership position among blockchain-based healthcare solution providers. They aim to grow rapidly through mergers and acquistions, while selling innovative blockchain-based healthcare solutions to their existing customer base.To learn more about blockchain-based healthcare initiatives, startups, POCs and ICOs, contact us.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
CoverUS helps pay for your health insurance by using blockchain technology to securely broker your health data.CoverUS (pronounced “cover us”) is a blockchain-based, pre-launch healthcare startup that plans to reward its members with cryptocurrency in exchange for the right to broker their healthcare data. The startup won the Blockchain for Social Impact Hackathon in the Financial Inclusion category in November, and was featured in a FastCompany article earlier this month. Although no date is set for their ICO, CoverUS plans to hold a crowd sale of their utility token in 2018.The CoverUS missionCofounder and CEO Christopher Sealey argues that there are two problems in healthcare that CoverUS is directly addressing: one moral and one practical. The moral problem is that patients “should own their own data,” rather than be forced to sit back helplessly as companies buy and sell it. The practical problem is that a patient’s EHR does not tell the whole story of their health status, which requires the patient’s input. CEO Sealey believes that CoverUS’s solution can help solve both of these problems, while significantly reducing the patient’s healthcare costs in the process.The CoverUS appAt the center of the CoverUS strategy is a subscription-based mobile app. New users simply download and interact with the app, which stores their health data on their smartphone and serves as their digital wallet.The 21st Century Cures ActTo provide patients with quick access to their EHRs through the CoverUS mobile app, the company is taking advantage of a particular law within the federal 21st Century Cures Act, which mandates that as of January 1st, 2018, electronic healthcare systems in the U.S. must provide intuitive, open APIs that allow patients to easily access their EHRs.The blockchain: balancing privacy and sharingAccording to the CoverUS team, storing patient health data on the blockchain is necessary for two reasons: to keep the patient in the center of the decision-making surrounding third-party access to their data, and to achieve a balance between data-privacy and data-sharing.CoverCoinEssentially serving as a health data broker, CoverUS rewards patient-subscribers that allow the company to share their health data. The rewards come in the form of the company’s B2C digital currency: CoverCoin. CoverUS maintains that managing your CoverCoin account will be as simple as managing a frequent flyer rewards account. The app will prominently display the patient-subscriber’s total CoverCoin in their digital wallet, along with a list of recent activities that serve as credits and debits to their account. The mobile app prototype that the CoverUS team uses as an example shows a patient with a credit of “+75” for sharing their health data via a “Family Membership Survey” and a debit of “-120” for using their CoverCoin to pay for “Gym Membership Dues.” Two prominent buttons (Spend and Earn) lead the user-patient into the two complementary sides of the app.Tokens for healthcareAccording to CoverUS team, in order to incentivize healthy living, CoverCoin can only be redeemed for health- expenses. Cofounder Andrew Hoppin argues that if the company were to pay patients in cash, and they were to “spend that money on candy and cigarettes,” it would defeat the “virtuous cycle” of healthy living that CoverUS aims to reinforce.The CoverCoin wallet versus an HSAPatients can use the CoverCoin in their digital wallets to pay for many of the same health- expenses that health savings accounts (HSAs) provide for. However, the CoverUS team argues that their digital wallet is more flexible than a health savings account (HSA). Patients can redeem their tokens for a wider range of health- services and activities, including rides to a doctor or dentist appointment; childcare during a hospital stay; and gym memberships.Community sharingThere is also a community dimension to the CoverUS rewards program. By joining CoverUS, patients will also join the CoverUS subscriber community, and will learn about the health goals and financial struggles of other community members. If they wish, patients can transfer some of their rewards to other community members. They can also help other patients further their health- goals in non-financial ways and earn further CoverUS rewards in the process.Initial coin offeringAlthough CoverUS has not yet set a date for their ICO, cofounder and CEO Sealey told FastCompany that the startup plans to raise funds for their launch through a crowd sale of the company’s B2B utility token in 2018.For more information on healthcare startups utilizing the blockchain, contact us.
IncentHealth Leverages Chat Bots and Ethereum Blockchain to Incentivize Healthy Habits for the Underserved.Blockchain Startup Review: IncentHealthAs their name suggests, IncentHealth is a healthcare startup that aims to create incentives for healthy living. In an effort to help end healthcare inequality, the company will focus its blockchain-based platform and cyptocurrency based incentives on helping underserved groups reach critical health milestones. Their pilot project is a smoking cessation app and program that relies on a collaborative effort between patients, their support networks and their doctors.Platform and programAlthough the healthcare startup has not shared detailed specifics on their Ethereum-based blockchain platform, they do emphasize that the smart-contract powered platform will draw upon “lessons learned from clinical trials” on the efficacy of health incentives. The backbone of the smoking cessation program is a series of milestones, corresponding to health goals, that the patient must meet on their way to the larger goal of successful quitting smoking. Upon achieving each health-goal milestone, the IncentHealth program rewards the patient with a specific quantity of digital currency. The program will make use of predictive analytics to gauge when to make changes to the incentives awarded.IncentHealth digital assistantOne of the tools at the center of IncentHealth’s pilot program is a chat bot that keeps in close touch with the patient throughout their struggle to quit smoking. The IncentHealth chat bot is programmed to reach out regularly to the patient, inviting them to update their progress through quick surveys. It also arranges for them to talk to a member of the patient’s “care team” as needed. In the company’s chat bot demo, the IncentHealth chat bot reaches out to the patient after a stressful day at work. The chat bot asks the patient to rate their level of craving (for a cigarette) that day on a scale of 1 to 10. When the patient answers “9”, a more in-depth conversation ensues. When the chat bot learns that the patient has had a cigarette that day, the chat bot asks the patient to identify which, if any, of the most common triggers (peer pressure, stress at work, or withdrawal symptoms) led the patient to smoke. Upon learning that the trigger was work stress, the chat bot shares a link to a resource “about getting to a smoke free environment” to help the patient push through their stumbling block.User personasIncentHealth has made their exploratory user profiles, a common stage in the modern design process, public. Of their five user profiles, three are patients, one is a doctor and one is a health innovation director. The patients and doctors, such as “female smoker [who] desires a better way to quit” and “physician [who] wants to explore new smoking cessation models” play complementary roles in the IncentHealth smoking cessation program. When the smoker visits their doctor looking for help in their struggle to quit smoking, the doctor recommends that they try IncentHealth’s pilot program. When the patient accepts, the doctor logs into IncentHealth, chooses a form of payment (e.g. “CareGiver/ins support donate incentive program”), initiates the program and sends the patient a link to get started.Health directors, on the other hand, follow another process. The company’s director persona, a “health innovation director passionate about new incentive programs,” is looking for an affordable, innovative smoking cessation program to implement in her organization. She has chosen IncentHealth’s pilot program. After logging into the dashboard at IncentHealth.io, she reviews the worklists and performance reports associated with her doctors’ current smoking-cessation patients. She then exports the statistics, along with a summary of patient funding, to present at her next board meeting.Team and futureIncentHealth’s small team of five includes co-founder Daniel Schott, MBA, who CoinDesk featured in a recent article on U.S. blockchain-based healthcare startups, such as Gem Health and IncentHealth, looking outside the United States as they explore projects and partners. Schott explained that IncentHealth is finding the current U.S. health industry excessively restrictive and resistant to change. Consequently, IncentHealth is “looking to Canada” as a more welcome environment to engage in initial partnerships and prototype development.To learn more about healthcare startups leveraging blockchain technology, contact us.
HealthHeart Leadership, Formerly of Epic, Brings Blockchain To the EHR.Of all the industries that have taken large hits to their public reputation recently, blockchain and healthcare are two of the most prominent. New breaches and hacks seem to be announced almost weekly, leaving users and patients with little faith in their provider’s competency and anxiety over potential identity theft issues. HealthHeart seeks to allay those fears by bringing both HIPAA compliant electronic records and blockchain security to the table at one time.A Perfect Match?Founded by Mark Roudnitsky, formerly of Epic, a company familiar to anyone working in the EHR space, HealthHeart’s leadership team seems tailor-made for marrying blockchain and patient data safely and securely. To go with his IT and software bona fides, he has assembled a core team with experience in either tech innovation or healthcare. Rather than focusing solely on the IT security part of the project, however, HealthHeart has brought in practicing physicians to advise on user experience and provide professional insight into how the final product will be used. There is no better way to fill a need than work directly with those who have it.The Nuts And BoltsHealthHeart is built on Ethereum’s stable and much-used platform. This is common of many blockchain applications, as it keeps them from having to reinvent the wheel to get started. Each patient is given a unique indicator that is part of their Ethereum address. This indicator not only serves to identify the patient to the system but restrict access to approved parties for approved information. While the nuts and bolts of the HealthHeart software are proprietary, this is an elegant solution HIPAA’s mandate to provide the minimum amount of information necessary for treatment.On the user side of things, the HealthHeart platform appears fairly intuitive to any practitioner familiar with EHR software as it exists currently. There is support for both clinic laptops as well as mobile support that will work well with today’s increasingly connected and on-the-go patients. While all that is available to the public currently are mock-ups, the system is easily consistent with current technology and design trends.The BreakdownProsHealthHeart attempts to fill a vital need. Both providers and patients are ready for more effective medical security. In the wake of Bitcoin’s soaring prices leading up to the now aborted SegWit2x hard fork, the public has never been more aware of blockchain technology, albeit primarily as an investment instrument. This public sentiment could help drive adoption. As an investment, there is still time to get in while the bonuses are good. HealthHeart’s pre-crowdsale began in October, but the crowdsale is expected to run until the end of the year.RisksWhile the HealthHeart team looks amazing, there have been several high-profile security events in blockchains based on Ethereum recently. No doubt their security personnel are closely monitoring the developments and evaluating how it would affect their products and users. Adoption may need more than public opinion. Physicians tend toward conservative views, after all, it’s their practice on the line if a new EHR system exposes their patients.  As with any ICO, there is the potential for failure to deliver, both as a product and an investment. In HeartHealth’s case, however, they have gone above and beyond when deciding who to include in the development of their system. The common red flags, such as unknown and untested individuals, sketchy addresses, or poorly rendered marketing, are all absent.Another Tool For Doctors And Blockchain ProponentsHealthHeart looks like a nicely packaged, well-planned EHR offering for medical providers. It also gives blockchain another opportunity to show the public exactly how much this still-emerging technology can do for the betterment of society.If you’re ready to learn more about the blockchain innovations that are powering the healthcare of tomorrow, contact us for the latest news, reviews, and analysis.
Technology Review – Oxcyon’s CentralPoint Platform.CentralPoint’s Single Sign-On SystemOne of the greatest aspects of CentralPoint is it allows each user to sign in and control the content they create or post. Similar to a CRM program, this takes things to a new level thanks to being a blockchain network.What’s unique about this single sign-on system is it allows a “cross forest” authentication process to allow people into your network from numerous places. This includes those outside your company when you need to collaborate on healthcare projects with people from disparate channels. Thanks to CentralPoint integrating with popular software like SalesForce, there few, if any, conflicts during sign-ins.Dynamic roles can also become assigned during sign-ins, giving more customized ways to control how people work and gain access to healthcare information.Providing Personalized Digital ExperiencesHealthcare organizations that deal in specific services can gain a lot using CentralPoint since it creates a harmonious platform designed for specific tasks.Using blockchain technology, one can create a private network to work on documents, webpages, mobile content and design for separate digital experiences. This information can then be shared among staff or users easily without worrying about data thieves infiltrating the network.Gathering Data on Each UserCentralPoint gathers staff analytics to help make smart business decisions through a private network so only designated people see it. Through CentralPoint’s rich business intelligence, gamification, and reporting, you can get a clear picture without concern about who has access.Industries That Can Use CentralPointYou’re already seeing this platform being used in fields beyond healthcare, including media, manufacturing, government, and non-profit organizations. In the field of healthcare, the use of blockchain already provides a secure network to share information with patients without security fears.CentralPoint makes it all the more attractive to the healthcare field thanks to what the company deems a “scalable wheel.” It basically creates a mind map that connects to numerous sources instantly while letting allowing for expansion at will.This feature lets creates a vast digital ecosystem connecting a user to an omnichannel universe, regardless of company size.Proving Worth Before You BuyCentralPoint allows for a preview the product to show its value before buying. Through their module gallery, they can build a high fidelity prototype of a desired healthcare project first to show off it capabilities.Contact Blockchain Healthcare Review to keep reading reviews of other software and services using blockchain to change healthcare for the better.
DNAnexus – Collaborative Bioinformatics Research.DNAnexus is a leading bioinformatics company offering a cloud-based, flexible, genomic data management system. Although not currently blockchain-based, their platform is part of a growing landscape of healthcare IT innovation that is making sweeping changes to the healthcare industry. Healthcare organizations and genomic researchers are using the DNAnexus platform to store and deliver value-added DNA sequence data to clients; to discover new drugs through genomic R&D; and to share and collaborate with other genomic researchers online. Most recently, the bioinformatics company announced the launch of a collaborative platform (MOSAIC) for genomic researchers across the globe to work together toward new breakthroughs in bioinformatics that could in turn lead to new healthcare solutions.The platformThe primary DNAnexus product is a cloud-based genomic data management system with several key component that help researchers in the following areas:Uploading and securely storing their genomic data Scaling their DNA sequencing processes Building, porting, reproducing and testing pipelines Maintaining clinical data compliance (e.g. HIPAA compliance) Sharing and collaborating with other bioinformatics researchers and organizations Controlling genomic data access Integrating with partnersUse casesCompanies and researchers are currently applying the flexible DNAnexus platform to a wide variety of use cases.Value-added DNA sequencing data deliveryThe DNAnexus platforms integrates directly with an organization’s sequencing instruments, and can handle multiple simultaneous upload streams. Once uploaded to the cloud, DNAnexus can then deliver the DNA sequencing data to the organization’s clients as part of a larger, value-added bioinformatics solution that expands the original organization’s data offering.R&D toward drug discoveryBy using the DNAnexus platform, researchers can more easily identify the sources of disease in the human genome and address them.Collaborative bioinformatics researchDNAnexus has designed its platform around APIs, making it flexible enough to handle the needs and requirements of a wide variety of genome centers. The cloud-based platform can also scale as projects grow, and organizations can add hundreds of collaborators.MOSAIC: Collaborative microbiome research spaceOn June 27th, 2017, in conjunction with their partner Janssen Research & Development (including the Jansen Human Microbiome Institute), DNAnexus announced the release of the MOSAIC research collaboration platform. MOSAIC helps genomic researchers to more easily organize, manage and share their data.Organizing and analyzing bioinformatics dataTo help researchers organize and analyze their genomic data, MOSAIC provides collaborative workspaces; “studies and runs” to help with sequencing and metadata; and an advanced search feature that returns data from workspaces, studies, runs, executions and apps.Support for data interactionTo help with data interaction, the MOSAIC platform runs microbiome apps that have already been made publicly available by the greater bioinformatics community and require no installation. MOSAIC also enables researchers to create their own private apps. Once researchers have selected their apps, they can chain them together into a complete workflow. Finally, MOSAIC provides an execution-tracking feature that enables researchers to monitor the performance of their apps and processes at a granular level.Sharing and collaborationTo enhance sharing and collaboration, the MOSAIC platform includes groups, discussions and bioinformatics data sharing. However, to access workspaces, assets and apps, users must accept licensing terms.Company overviewLaunched in 2010, DNAnexus has grown into the worldwide leader in genomics data management. The Mountain View, California-based company offers an advanced, cloud-based bioinformatics platform that enables organizations to more easily handle their genomic data by making the bioinformation management process more secure, accessible, manageable, scalable and collaborative. The global company has operations in North America, South America, Africa, Europe and Asia-Pacific. The DNAnexus team is composed primarily of experts from two fields: cloud computing and computational biology.See also: Blockchain and Healthcare Data ManagementTo learn more about innovative IT companies leading change in the healthcare industry, contact us.
MedCredits and Hippocrates: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using Blockchain.Blockchain technology seeks to connect patients with doctors on a decentralized platform to help reduce healthcare costs associated with office visits and middlemen. Several tech startups are racing to cross the finish line! One such, MedCredits, claims they’re the first blockchain powered platform that connects providers to patients worldwide on a decentralized network. Many in the industry anxiously await the announcement or launch date for token sale, and MedX token price. To receive the blue ribbon that label’s them as the first company to successfully integrate blockchain technology and smart contracts into current healthcare designs would give them a proverbial leg up on the competition.MedCredits: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using BlockchainSimilar to other telemedicine startups, MedCredits desires to improve healthcare access and reduce rising healthcare costs. Developers believe trying to create a decentralized electronic medical record (EMR) is too difficult of a task to tackle all at one time, and rather approach implementation organically, growing the platform overtime by targeting medical specialities and slowly releasing software updates.Instead of dismantling an entire electronic system and re-training workers, MedCredit team members are approaching blockchain-based telemedicine through integrating technology into readily accessible medical specialities, like Dermatology, to serve as a foundation for later application into other fields.Dermatology is one of several specialities transforming the healthcare market by approaching it as a borderless, decentralized network. Diagnoses are largely based upon subjective descriptions and examination of skin, which Dermatologists agree can safely be accomplished with photographs and clear patient descriptions via smartphones.How It WorksMedCredits, built from the OpenBazzar code-based system, is working to seamlessly integrate Hippocrates, a user-friendly app connecting Dermatologists with their patients, on the MedCreditsplatform. OpenBazzar is a decentralized peer-to-peer sharing platform for goods and information. Hippocrates is a user-friendly app on the MedCredits platform, where providers and patients meet to discuss their skin concerns.Global Network ~ Borderless access to Dermatologists! MedCredits‘ goal is to globalize medicine!  Instant Connection ~ Hippocrates is a user-friendly application, prompting patients through each step to submit cases, receive diagnosis and hear treatment recommendations with the touch of a button.  Payment ~ Patients pay using MEDX, or ERC20 tokens, secured on Ethereum blockchain and regulated by self-executing smart contracts to track the automated transactions. Diagnosis ~ After successful transaction, patients receive diagnosis and recommendations from licensed medical professionals without ever having to leave their environment!AdvantagesMedCredits opens up hospital doors globally, providing borderless patient access to physicians, assisting to remove geographical barriers to clinics, and improving health outcomes worldwide. Overtime, MedCredits hopes to extend its reach to other medical specialities, such as Cardiology and Neurology, to interconnect EMR with other departments and hopefully global systems.Allows for physicians to access demographics who have limited mobility or means to attend regular appointments. Records are available through secured access, giving patients the keys for their health! Patients are given access to healthcare professionals for diagnosis, referral or treatment anywhere, at anytime!DisadvantagesResearch reveals that people spend over 90% of their free time on applications, though this doesn’t necessarily mean we should encourage it. Incentivizing patients through leaving star ratings, may impact an insurance company’s decision to provide coverage or include clinics in their network. This has possible ramifications on who is able to receive treatments locally, or be made to rely on smart technologies alone.People as LinksIt’s undeniable that aspects of telemedicine and blockchain technology help to streamline healthcare processes. Studies may show that more people are comfortable interacting through a screen. Admittedly, it’s difficult to untangle persons with technology, as one will often times support the other. Companies like MedCredits make telemedicine possible, and with some more research, can hopefully help us drive our health forward into the future!Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
Distributed Health Sept. 2017: Using Blockchain Tech to Lasso Healthcare.Last October at Distributed: Health, Hashed Healthcare announced their partnership with Martin Ventures to steer the healthcare industry into the blockchain age. This September, CEO John Bass and Chairman Charlie Martin will share with us details about their developing relationship. Expect to see some other friendly faces and meet new ones as world leaders gather to re-imagine today’s healthcare marketplace through implementing transformation technology into current infrastructure. Hosting a variety of speakers from Harvard Medical School and the CDC, to Aetna, to Intel Health and Life Sciences who will review opportunities and obstacles facing blockchain technology in institutional practices. Some leaders believe one benefit of this technology is to streamline communication between providers and patients. Crypto-mining malware isn’t new to cryptocurrencies and raises question’s concerning “crypto-security” and “immutability” that this technology claims to offer. Recently Ethereum (a popular blockchain platform) experienced another cyber-attack, though this time during the ICO phase. This begs the question: how secure is a programmed algorithmic self-aware system, if such software has already experienced two cryptocurrency heists? Hopefully this year speakers will discuss new coding developments to improve security measures and talk about how such a transparent system will meet HIPPA regulations, which were left hovering above the clouds last October. Perhaps recent events will light a new path, providing insights that may help to prevent future crypto-hacks.Schermerhorn Symphony Center September 25th-26th, 2017:Brought to you by Hashed Health & BTC Media!  Download The Event App Bizzabo!  You can PAY via Bitcoin!Healthcare Ecosystem a New MarketplaceSinclair Lewis’s literature wasn’t far off from envisioning the impact business and advertising would have on our culture as communication platforms evolved. Programmed to understand neuro-linguistics and graph human behavioral patterns, deep-chain self-aware software systems predict patient health habits to directly target marketing of products and services. Intelligent machines coupled with blockchain technology transform today’s traditional market into a virtual ecosystem. Smart devices connected to a blockchain cloud will digitally expand hospital arms into patient homes. The Internet of Things or inter-networking of smart devices, implemented with blockchain technology and smart contracts theoretically provides simultaneous immutable tracking of multiple data sources, like medical records and billing, in one de-centralized database. Imagine the limitless opportunities transformative technology will have on managing humanity’s health and wellness!Building Virtual ClinicsDigital connectivity provides an instant continual flow of information, leading to improved communication and care between providers and patients. An electronic health database and remote monitoring is especially useful for patients receiving cardiac or post-stroke care, as well as glucose management. Physicians: imagine the immediate impact and long-term effect of using a glucometer at home, with the added benefit of your patient uploading and sending the results to you daily. This will help Internists and Geriatric Specialists closely monitor glucose levels in their endocrine fragile patients. Peering through the screen, implementing a blockchain cloud system has potential to improve patient care while impacting the industry’s bottom-line, upstream and downstream.A few appealing characteristics:Blockchain Systems are attractive to employers and third-party payers alike! Software analytics predict patient health habits while positively impacting results! It’s more cost-effective to keep sick patients healthier and out of the hospital! Invest in the well-being of your community and see the value mirrored in the health of the population your institution treats! Intelligent machines offer solutions to long-term care by improving a patient’s access to their physician and open flow of communication! Incorporation of technological tactics opens the door to appropriating additional resources!This Year’s Featured Speakers:David Houlding~ Director of Healthcare Privacy & Security, Intel Health and Life Sciences  Lori Melichar~ Director, Pioneer Portfolio, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation  Jim Nasr ~ Chief Software Architect, CDC  Harold Paz ~ Executive VP & CMO, Aetna  Brian Behlendorf ~ Executive Director, The Hyperledger Project  Francois de Brantes ~ VP & Director, Altarum Center for Payment Information  John Bass ~ CEO, Hashed Health  John Sotos ~ CMO, Intel Industry Sales Group  Mike Jacobs ~ Engineer, OptumHurdlesAs of yet, cryptocurrencies have no sovereign regulation. Are crypto-coins just another commodity? In other words, what are they? Another red flag: blockchain technology risks detaching the human experience from medicine. A person’s real world identity is lost, though not a new problem in medicine, this technology may increase it. Too often are phrases heard like, “The kidney in 718 needs dialysis by tonight!” or “Are the sugars in room 1012 better controlled now?” Imagine how virtual examinations could intensify these kinds of interactions. Suddenly, the kidney in room 718 is an indiscriminate character behind a screen. Undeniably, connecting smart devices and medicine through the blockchain cloud offers solutions to redirect healthcare, though there are still bugs that need treated. This September, Distributed: Health speaker’s have an opportunity to provide us answers to last years question’s and address lingering security concerns!For agenda and registration link, visit the DISTRIBUTED: HEALTH 2017 event page.
BurstIQ – Blockchain Platform for Securing, Analyzing and Monetizing all of your PHI.With the integration of blockchain technology into healthcare well underway, B2C blockchain based startups are focusing intently on developing tools that facilitate ownership and provenance of personal health information (PHI). In this space, prevention is the name of the game, and there is no better way to prevent illness than precisely knowing what makes you, well, you.Colorado based BurstIQ “has solved two fundamental challenges that have, until now, prevented blockchain from being utilized in the healthcare space: support for large volumes of data and ensuring security of the underlying data.” The ecosystem includes an intuitive and easy to understand consumer facing product called Lifegraph, where a participant can consolidate all PHI and share what you want with who you want all the while delivering personalized wellness plans. What makes BurstIQ stand out is their marketplace, where you as an individual can license, sell, loan or even donate your PHI to established research networks on the other end. This kind of dedication to active matchmaking is a key incentive for consumer participation.Monetize Health Data on the BurstIQ MarketplaceBurstIQ is personalizing the next generation of healthcare by converging multiple technological sources of your health information into one singular place: The Health Singularity. BurstIQ is the marketplace and your data is the currency. How does tech like this presumably work?BurstIQ Goals:Improve Patient Satisfaction Improve Quality of Care & Outcomes Increase Market Shares Reduce Excessive Costs Build Brands That Shake Hands Target Research to Save on Costs & TimeThe BurstIQ marketplace is where individuals and businesses or research institutes can freely collaborate, reaching agreements together with the assistance from artificial intelligence. Engagements in the marketplace are supported by BurtIQ’s Healthwallet, which powers PHI data governance, compliance, security and permission rules. Other platform services include BurstChain, which is the backbone for rights management functionalities as well as managing consent contracts to permit access to patient-sensitive information, and LifeGraph. LifeGraph is able to cross-examine and manage information from multiple sources to create a road map of your health-data throughout a lifespan.Elements of the New Health Ecosystem:A.I. systems provide more precise insights about your health habits, and which ones are positively (and negatively) impacting long-term care results. Use remote patient monitoring and targeted testing, as well as immediate access to Physicians through telehealth consults. It’s your Virtual Clinic! Consumer focused health plans act to tailor wellness needs based upon home tests made available to participants Sensitive patient information is securely stored in personalized digital HealthWallets. Through the HealthWallet, your health metrics as defined by your LifeGraph determines the care you receive. For example: Primary Care Physicians can write and approve your prescription in exchange for BiQ tokens.BurstIQ is a beacon for blockchain HIT innovation that not only supports owning your PHI, but also having the tools to learn from it, which can be tremendously helpful when deciding what you want to do with it.Unquestionably, using blockchain technology to help gather and store patient data in one place improves treatment accuracy and redundant administrative costs. What remains to be seen from B2C blockchain HIT startups is the network effect of having the security, collaboration and incentive motivation to share PHI. In practice, it can help improve the accuracy and cost of clinical research, which could trickle down to affecting drug prices. The first litmus test though for this innovation fork in healthcare’s timeline is to what degree does all this technology will make any given citizen more accountable and engaged with their data.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
Encrypgen: The Gene-Chain Project.Security Issues Genomic DataOver the last few years, the scientific world saw an exponential growth in the type and volume of available genomic data. Genomic data refer to information with respect to an organism’s complete set of genes, or what we call genomic DNA. Technology kept up with the capture, processing, storage, and analysis of this critical information but solutions to the security and privacy of genomic databases lag far behind.Encrypgen’s Gene-Chain revolutionizes the genomic industryBy their very nature, genome sequencing contains the most sensitive data about individuals. DNA contains information on ethnic background, the propensity to develop certain medical conditions, even life expectancy and personality traits — all of which a person may want to keep confidential and out of the hands of cyber criminals.Gene-Chain stores genomic data from individual donors and researchers, which can then be used for metadata searched . This storage platform makes it easier to browse through the material and securely share scientific data. Universities and other research centers — and even corporations — buy the right to store data on Gene-Chain. Once licensed, these scientific research centers and corporations can request to see stored data other than their own. The Gene-Chain processes these data requests by ensuring the requests comply with privacy and consent laws which, in turn, makes scientific collaboration and ethics procedures easier. Gene-Chain donors can see a complete historical record of all “withdrawals” of the data they upload to the platform. In addition, donors can grant specific scientists and research projects access to their data by giving them special keys that provide secure access for a specific time period, after which they expire.What is so special about Gene-Chain?Based on blockchain technology, Encrypgen’s Gene-Chain provides a trackable and unhackable method that enables transactions involving genomic information over secure networks. People who deposit, use, or mine genomic data receive Gene-Chain coins, a valuable and exchangeable cryptocurrency. In practical terms, this means that donors can make money from those who mine their data.Encrypgen is in the midst of its first sale of 80 million Gene-Chain coins which it expects to conclude sometime in July 2017. At of this date, the company sold 55% of the Gene-Chain offering. The company will distribute wallets at the end of the current sale. In August, 2017, the DNA tokens will list on crypto-exchanges.Who is Encrypgen?Co-founder David Koepsell, JD/PHD, brings his background in law, ethics, and software, to his position as Encrypgen CEO. He leads Encrypgen’s mission to develop systems that will improve the usefulness and privacy of genetic databases and will protect database donors.The Co-founder of Encrypgen is Vanessa Gonzalez Covarrubis, PHD. She is the genomic science advisor for the team and brings more than a decade of genetic science experience to her role. She also writes extensively on genetic science for various publications. As genomic science advisor, Ms. Covarrubis researches pharmacogenomics which is the science behind the emerging field of personal medical genomics.Partners and MembersEncrypgen counts Curlew Research as an organizational partner which supports Encrypgen (and other technology partners) with life science and health innovative projects.Encrypgen is an organizational member of the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health. The company also actively seeks to create partnerships with other entities who share its interest in the security, privacy, and collaboration of genomic data for scientific and health purposes.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
Female Blockchain Entrepreneurship in Healthcare.Women Entrepreneurs Focused on Solving Healthcare with BlockchainBlockchain is a technology that is open to all. It does not discriminate based on age or gender and is built around mathematical concepts and technology. It is behind the rise of crypto-currency tokens, which are the lifeblood of monetizing blockchain innovation. The industry young, and many new companies and founders with great ideas are entering and making a large impact. For that reason, many female founders are having a big impact on the blockchain industry by founding new companies and driving new ventures.Kat Kuzmeskas – CEO, SimplyVital HealthSimplyVital Health is a company that has a large impact on the budding blockchain healthcare sector. It is focused on data portability, tracking and analysis of healthcare data. It is already making a huge impact that is easy to use and that naturally integrates with legacy systems.Kat Kuzmeskas is one of the founders of SimplyVital Health. This impressive founder has a deep background in the health industry including working at the Yale New Haven Health System and earning a Masters in Public Health. Kuzmeskas understood the issues that small health providers face and how data portability could help them save time, costs and improve patient care. She then teamed up with co-founder and CTO Lucas Hendren to create the SimplyVital Health Solution.SimplyVital Health is a giant leap forward on the ability of companies, institutions and healthcare providers to track and manage patient information with 100% security. Of course, patient data must be kept private and secure according to HIPAA regulations. Fortunately, the blockchain ledger allows for a mathematical solution that prevents fraud and allows all exchanges of information to be pre-verified.The solution tracks each step that patients go through, from the symptoms they have to the time they enter their first provider to all of the care, procedures and medications they receive. This is important for several reasons. First of all, it records the interventions in a clear and easy to use system that should indicate to other medical providers what has worked and what is not working.  That helps later diagnoses.Secondly, it ensures that the interventions were done according to a medically determined standard of care. That means that insurance companies will have no way to deny claims of unnecessary procedures or excessive medications. Providers love this because it means they get paid faster and have full verification in case of any disputes.Thirdly, it creates a way for the government or the hospital to do a quick audit of a patient or patient’s records to see that all of the proper compliance standards are being followed. Audits are much quicker and less expensive. That is better for the government and the institution itself. Plus any changes in procedure may be easily programmed into the legacy system to guide providers in the future.SimplyVital Health was also built to integrate painlessly with legacy IT systems. That means providers will not need a long training period or expensive implementation costs. As SimplyVital Health continues to add more features and functions, more and more institutions are adopting the technology.Elaine Comeau- CEO PointNurseAnother company to look out for in the female led healthcare blockchain startup community is PointNurse. It is run Elaine Comeau who herself is a registered nurse. The firm helps home nurses to log their care, hours and interventions on the blockchain. This provides tremendous convenience and security. In addition to advocating for “out-of-hospital blockchains”, PointNurse envisions a “decentralized autonomous nursing organization” or “DANO,” that will make full of use of blockchain to disrupt and transform the multi-billion dollar nurse-staffing industry. This seed stage start-up is a player to watch in the future.Chrissa McFarlane- CEO, PatientoryLastly, a discussion in women driven blockchain entrepreneurship can not be complete without mentioning the recent, and ongoing success, of Chrissa McFarlane, CEO of Patientory. With a recent issuance of their ICO, Patientory secured $7.2 million in funding by making their token (PTOY) available to the public for purchase. The platform is designed to transfer tokens—PTOY—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patient.Where to buy PTOYIf you missed the Patientory ICO, not to worry. You can still purchase tokens on exchanges such as Liqui.The Patientory platform makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology and decentralizes data so that it distributed and HIPAA compliant. Patientory also has deployed a mobile app enables users to store, view and track their healthcare data using HIPAA-compliant blockchain technology.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
BitJob Brings Blockchain to the Student Workforce Using Smart Contracts.It’s always interesting to shine a spotlight on startups that are doing something extraordinary to disrupt business as usual. Today’s post draws your attention to one such Startup Review: BitJob. At its heart, BitJob is a special kind of social network. BitJob is an important innovation for students, designed to help them earn money while they gain valuable work experience that will prove useful when they look for a permanent job.BitJob Brings Blockchain Technology to the Student WorkforceBitJob takes the idea behind the popular freelancer job boards — where job seekers bid on jobs — and focuses them toward micro-gigs. To do this, BitJob uses Blockchain technology to form a platform where employers and students collaborate to the advantage of both in Peer to Peer (P2P) networking. We think of it as concentrating the freelance workforce on “no job too small” platforms.How do student workers get paid?BitJob has two ways for employers to pay their student workers. They can use traditional, centralized payment methods, otherwise known as government legal tender. Or they can use cryptocurrency (think bitcoin), which is a decentralized payment platform (not government issued legal tender). BitJob’s cryptocurrency will be called : STU , The official STU crowdsale will begin on September 12th, while early birds can start contribute to this project at the exclusive pre-sale event, starting August 2nd. (Contact the team for more details).How do BitJob’s team are going to attract students to Join the platform?BitJob’s foundation is launching an affiliate marketing plan for spreading the word around the world, In order to reach as many students as possible, The team has came up with a wonderful reward program that will provide their partners with referee rewards and future dividends of every student they will bring into the platform, This way more & more Unions and councils can assist in bitJob’s vision of a global Students employment platform.How do employers and employees agree on the terms of the arrangement?No lawyers for these engagements. BitJob uses Smart Contracts for the work. Smart Contracts are a creature of Blockchain technology and, in this instance, supported by Ethereum Blockchain’s smart contract functionality.Smart Contracts are agreements created by a computer platform. The terms of the Smart Contract memorialize the negotiations between the buyers and sellers but instead of reducing those particulars to a traditional writing, encodes the terms, “written” as it were in lines of code.The contracts reside in the Blockchain network which preserves and distributes the information. The parties to the contracts remain anonymous. There is no legal system nor any enforcement entity needed. The contracts are “traceable, transparent, and irreversible”, according to Investopedia.com.BitJob PartnersSome solid companies have joined in partnership with this innovative platform. They include the Dutch Government’s Blockchain Projects, The Netherland’s Government, Blockchain Association of Canada (BAC), QBRICS, Blockchain Education Network, Cambridge Blockchain, Infolab, University of Florida Gator Bitcoin Club, and Blockchain Healthcare Review, just to name a few.From the Perspective of the Healthcare IndustryHow can the healthcare industry piggyback on this peer-to-peer model? Antiquated best describes our medical records process today. Many of the larger hospitals have graduated to electronic health records but individual doctors, especially in rural areas, have not converted. Their medical records are still filled by paper which makes it very hard to search.What we need is a way to connect the health records of our personal physicians to the health records in the hospital and to our lab results, and so on. Even the information currently stored on computers is not connected to other computers that have additional health information. Added to that, the individual servers that hold the medical information are easy for hackers to break.Blockchain technology holds out a potential solution to these connectivity issues. Just suppose, the modern medical record system encrypted an individual’s medical records and stored them on a peer-to-peer network. In much the same way that Blockchain currently stores financial information, or the way BitJob stores potential jobs, Blockchain technology can also store medical records.Once an individual designates a hospital or physician who then can access the system, all those disparate pieces of medical information come together. Such a system saves on paperwork and repetitive manual data input. Entering information only needs to happen one time because it is then shared among all people who have access to the medical records. And the individual controls how much information from his medical records he wants to give each medical provider.The U. S. Department of Health and Human Services is so interested in applying this technology to health care that it is reaching out to Blockchain technology experts to explain how it would work in a healthcare setting. In addition, MIT researchers created a prototype where they entered patient data such as prescriptions, medical history, and so on into a Blockchain platform. Then, they experimented to see if specific physicians could access the data. It worked well so now the prototype will expand to hospital networks to see how well it works in that setting.If you want to learn more about Blockchain in healthcare and its implications, read the marketplace.org article entitled “Using bitcoin’s technology to wrangle widespread medical records” which was an inspiration for this post.To talk more about how blockchain can impact your business, please contact us. We look forward to helping you understand Blockchain technology.————————————————————-For More details about bitJob – Please visit their site at: www.bitJob.ioContact : Dror Medalion, CEO   |   Email: Dror@bitJob.io
Change Healthcare Becomes First HIT to Join Hyperledger.Change Healthcare Joins HyperledgerOn May 22nd, 2017, Change Healthcare became the first healthcare IT firm (HIT) in the U.S. to join Hyperledger, a robust, Linux-led open source blockchain developer community and consortium. With Change Healthcare’s leadership in the health sector, and Hyperledger’s leadership in the blockchain developer community, the creation and implementation of innovative blockchain-based healthcare solutions are certainly forthcoming.Change Healthcare – HIT AnalyticsChange Healthcare is a leading, independent healthcare IT analytics and solution provider. The company has the nation’s “largest financial and administrative network.” Change Healthcare’s scale and reach in the healthcare sector, which will serve to help the spread of blockchain-based solutions, are clearly borne out in the following highlights:800,000 physicians served 12 billion transactions facilitated in 2016 2,100 payers connected (nearly all public and private payers in the U.S.) 5,500 hospitals servedChange Healthcare recently merged with McKesson Corporation’s IT arm (McKesson Technology Solutions) to create “the NEW Change Healthcare.” McKesson Corporation is a leading healthcare services and IT provider, recently ranked 5th among companies in the Fortune 500.Having directed their attention to providing healthcare IT solutions, Change Healthcare saw a natural partner in Hyperledger. CTO Aaron Symanski emphasized that while blockchain, still in its nascent phase, holds genuine promise for “secure online transactions,” it now needs leaders in the health sector to support and employ the platform to build the healthcare solutions of the future. As Change Healthcare joins the Hyperledger consortium, Symanski joins their governing board. Hyperledger executive director, Brian Behlendorf, sees Change Healthcare as “a huge asset” in Hyperledger’s efforts to assemble a community to help bring “open blockchain tools and services” to industries such as healthcare.Hyperledger – Open Source Blockchain DevelopmentHyperledger, backed by the Linux Foundation, is an open-source software project, community, incubator and consortium focused on enterprise blockchain solutions. To facilitate efficient, rapid development of open blockchain technology, Hyperledger encourages participating enterprises to make use of shared “building blocks” when developing their blockchain-based frameworks and applications.Member benefitsDevelopers and maintainers are at their best when coding software solutions. However, they may feel intimidated and out of their depth with the larger organizational, infrastructural and legal ramifications and requirements they need to consider before taking their projects to market. To help members bridge the gap, Hyperledger, backed by the Linux Foundation, offers its members one of the world’s leading “brain trusts” for open-source projects and infrastructure.Members will also gain access to resources to aid their marketing and PR efforts. Hyperledger highlights projects in active, or pending, status, on its flagship site Hyperledger.org. With nearly 50,000 monthly unique visitors, the Hyperledger site is a leading gathering place for blockchain developers. Hyperledger also has a blog, as well as active mailing lists and chats, that serve as an online venue for members to showcase their work while gaining insights from the greater blockchain developer community.For those eager for face-to-face interaction, Hyperledger also welcomes project leaders to take part in Hyperledger’s conferences. These “hackfests” serve as a gathering place to meet other like-minded developers while making new headway on their projects. Hyperledger Fabric, for example, initially contributed by IBM and Digital Asset, grew out of Hyperledger’s “first hackathon.” Hyperledger’s eight “hackfests” have thus far averaged 150 conference attendees from the blockchain developer community.As of May 22nd, 2017, Hyperledger has announced eight projects, including four frameworks and four tools. Six have graduated to active status. Prominent companies contributing or sponsoring Hyperledger projects include IBM, Intel, Hitachi, Huawei and DTCC, among others.The future of open-source blockchain in healthcareWith the sheer reach and scale of the new Change Healthcare, the Hyperledger community should receive a genuine boost in its mission to bring open enterprise blockchain solutions to healthcare and other industries. With several like-minded projects and blockchain building blocks already in place, forthcoming Hyperledger projects sponsored or contributed by the new Change Healthcare should come to market at an accelerated pace.Contact us for more blockchain healthcare news and insight.
MedRec: Innovating Blockchain for Healthcare Data Management.MIT Media Lab’s MedRec is a blockchain-based healthcare data management solutionTheir central focus is on the Electronic Medical Record (EMR). MedRec aims to give patients access to, and control over, their EMR while facilitating and motivating medical research.The patient interfaceMedRec provides a user-friendly interface for patients to access their EMR. The interface includes notifications of any updates to the EMR. MedRec also enables users to decide “when, and with whom, they share their data.” Patients will have the power to use the MedRec interface to grant a guardian, family member, new doctor or any other participant the rights to view their data. Furthermore, patients may share information regarding a specific subset of their EMR (such as data relating to a specific health condition) while keeping the rest of their EMR private. MedRec gives patients a high level of granular control over their data, and can even isolate individual fields for independent sharing or restricting.MedRec as a “Database Gatekeeper”MedRec does not store any actual medical records on their blockchain network. Rather, MedRec stores “aggregate data pointers” that only reference the medical records, which remain in their existing databases. These “pointers,” or references to the actual medical data, are at the heart of MedRec’s approach and are aggregated into patient-provider relationship units. As viewership permissions for the actual medical data change, these pointers and relationships get updated, allowing or restricting access to the medical data accordingly. The entire process operates through their “Database Gatekeeper layer.” MedRec maintains that its blockchain model, centered around their “Database Gatekeeper layer,” alleviates many common concerns that would otherwise arise without it. Perhaps most importantly, it allows providers to keep their existing databases and continue to use them as they do now. This not only makes participation in the MedRec network all the easier and affordable for providers, but may facilitate HIPAA compliance.Motivating medical researchThe MedRec team maintains that the medical research that is essential for helping researchers and providers find new cures and treatments is greatly hampered by the present lack of access to sufficient medical data. Although some clinical trial and other data does “trickle through,” there is a pressing need for more data that is currently inaccessible.MedRec hopes to provide a solution to this problem by introducing a “data economy.” In return for providing the “computational resources” that support the MedRec blockchain network, medical researchers and other participants will receive “census level, anonymized metadata” that is useful, presumably, for their research. Of course, patients and providers (“the data producers”) will have a say in how much of this metadata they release to the researchers and other participants (“the data consumers.”)The future of a blockchain EMRMedRec plans to perform ongoing usability and feasibility testing of their system with both patients and providers. This process will involve partnering with local healthcare providers to test the efficiency of their prototype. Once ready, they intend to release their framework as open source software. However, they are firmly committed to the principle that to use the system is not to own the data.Unlike most, if not all, of the other nascent blockchain healthcare projects, MedRec is not a company. Nonetheless, their ambitions are similar to a host of startup companies in this emerging space. In terms of their prospects for success, their affiliation with MIT certainly plays in their favor both in terms of instilling trust in participants and in terms of providing access to the university’s technical and human resources. Furthermore, their model’s Database Gatekeeper layer has a number of advantages, noted above, that might make them especially attractive to providers with cost, integration and regulatory concerns. It is perhaps more difficult to predict how providers and patients will respond to their model’s “data economy” approach, although it does appear to provide a genuine incentive to medical researchers.Contact us for more information on blockchain healthcare startups.
PointNurse: blockchain enabled telemedicine.Founded in 2014, PointNurse is a telemedicine provider and “global virtual care community.” PointNurse employs blockchain technology to give “care credits” to nurses, doctors and other participating healthcare professionals toward profit sharing and potential equity in the company, based on activity and performance.PointNurse: blockchain enabled telemedicine using “care credits”The uniqueness of the PointNurse model lies in the company’s “member-owner program.” The top-performing, most proactive nurses, doctors and other healthcare providers in the PointNurse community will not only earn income from their “virtual visits” with patients, but will have the opportunity to participate in profit-sharing while accumulating credits toward equity in the company. These “care credits” are blockchain-based tokens that providers earn for several “markers” of participation, including:Hours spent on-call New PointNurse members recruited Quality of care markersAt the end of the year, PointNurse calculates the total credits for each of its members, which in turn determines their “pro-rata share” of the “community’s profits” for the year. At the same time, PointNurse keeps track of each member’s cumulative lifetime care credits. In the event of a “merger, sale, or IPO,” each member can then redeem their credits for any “pro-rata equity gains” that result.PointNurse believes that their member-owner program, together with its unique care credits, distinguishes them from conventional, “transactional” telemedicine providers.The PointNurse mobile appAt the center of the PointNurse offering is the PointNurse app, found at the Apple app store. PointNurse describes the consumer-facing aspect of their app as a convenient way to have a “virtual visit” with a medical professional “from home, work or on the road,” at a cost of one dollar per minute. Furthermore, patients can use the PointNurse site to find nurse practitioners and medical doctors, organized by time zone and state.The company describes the counterpart provider-facing aspect of their app as a free platform for verified, licensed providers who wish to register to receive “video requests” (whether scheduled or “on-demand”) from new and existing patients. In order to participate, all that a healthcare professional needs is a computer with a working camera, connected to the Internet. And there are no fixed hours. PointNurse aims for “flexibility and freedom,” encouraging participants to work from home on their own schedules.Connection to HealthCombixIn September of 2016, Alex Danzberger, Senior VP at Unitek, joined the PointNurse advisory board. In addition, he made an investment not only in PointNurse, but HealthCombix, which PointNurse “spun off” at that time. HealthCombix builds distributed, blockchain-based apps that bring together systems “at the nexus of healthcare, pharma and insurance.” In particular, HealthCombix aims to encourage patient support groups by providing patients’ friends and family with “rewards for helping patients reach health goals.” This aspect of their model is similar to PointNurse’s care-credit approach, but aimed primarily at caregivers rather than providers. However, under the HealthCombix model, the patients receive rewards for reaching their goals as well. And rather than redeeming rewards for a share of company profits or equity, patients and caregivers alike can redeem them at participating “food, housing and community outlets.”Advocates for blockchain in healthcareAside from their significance as a standalone startup, the PointNurse team has advocated strongly for bringing blockchain into the healthcare industry in general and the nursing profession in particular. For example, a 2016 post on the PointNurse blog envisions a “decentralized autonomous nursing organization” or “DANO,” that will make full of use of blockchain to disrupt and transform the multi-billion dollar nurse-staffing industry. They have also advocated for “out-of-hospital blockchains.”Funding and futurePointNurse has yet to emerge from the seed-funding stage, or at least has not yet announced an institutional round of funding. Therefore, they may not have the resources to move toward their goals at the same speed as more high-profile startups in the blockchain healthcare space such as Gem Health and DokChain, both of which have institutionally-backed parent companies (Gem and Pokitdok, respectively). Nonetheless, PointNurse continues to show signs of life as they evolve toward their goals at their own pace. On April 20th, 2017, PointNurse announced that Elaine Comeau, a former executive at Philips Healthcare with a “distinguished career working in telehealth” would become the company’s new CEO. Ms. Comeau’s vision for the company continues to embrace blockchain.Join our community to learn more about promising blockchain startups in the healthcare space.
DokChain by PokitDok – Blockchain for Healthcare.PokitDok, a healthcare software platform provider, has recently introduced a new offering: DokChain, “blockchain for healthcare.” PokitDok envisions DokChain helping usher in a new era of value-based care handled (in the background) primarily by artificial intelligence (AI), rather than Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). This new breed of AI, in the form of “smart contracts,” will reside on DokChain, the company’s secure blockchain-based network. PokitDok’s expanding set of APIs will, in turn, connect all healthcare participants to the AI-rich DokChain and to each other. An impressive initial group of leading technology and healthcare partners, collectively the “DokChain Health Alliance,” has already signed on to lead the effort. And parent PokitDok’s $5M round of funding in March will certainly help fuel DokChain’s development for the remainder of 2017.The vision of DokChainDokChain made its formal debut on September 27th, 2016 at the Health 2.0 conference in Santa Clara, California. According to PokitDok Co-founder and CEO Lisa Maki, the introduction of blockchain in general (and DokChain in particular) into the healthcare system is part of the shift to value-based care. Maki argues that as the shift progresses, it’s becoming increasing clear that EMRs are no longer the sole repository of healthcare data. As a result, the push toward shared EMRs is at least partly misguided. After all, the EMR cannot capture the complete set of important events contributing to the patient’s overall “episode of care.” However, “smart contracts” can. These digital contracts, also known as “self-executing contracts” or “blockchain contracts” are a new breed of artificial intelligence (AI). Roughly speaking, smart contracts serve as ultra-efficient legal agents that can create, store and enforce contracts supporting the exchange of various forms of value (e.g. property, stock, money, etc.) on the blockchain in real-time. Accordingly, smart contracts, rather than the EMR, according to Maki, will emerge as the central medium for handling healthcare data in the future.The role of DokChainCEO Maki envisions DokChain connecting all endpoints (participants and stakeholders) in the healthcare ecosystem into a single secure blockchain network. These endpoints will not only include EMRs, but devices such as heart monitors. After pulling in data from all the endpoints participating in a given “episode of care,” DokChain records it, while handling permissions through “access grants” that DokChain “maintains and verifies.” The result is a distributed network of secure, richly organized healthcare data for stakeholders to track and share.The role of PokitDokAccording to Maki, although DokChain will serve as the blockchain network itself, PokitDok will provide the APIs connecting all of the following endpoints to the network and its “smart contract services”:Thirty party applications (more than 4,000). Insurance companies (more than 500). “[A]ll registered healthcare providers.”Use case: Insurance benefit checkOn stage at the Health 2.0 conference, Maki walked the audience through four steps in a typical use case—running a check to determine if one’s health insurance will cover a knee examination:Maki emphasizes that the benefits data itself is not stored on the DokChain, but rather in the secure PokitDok Platform. What is stored on DokChain are “access grants” to the benefits data, along with a complete record of the transaction that participants can access and share, subject to their permissions.PokitDok PartnersDokChain has announced an impressive list of initial partners:Microsoft GE Healthcare Adventist Healthcare The Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health SystemThis group, along with others, are joining forces in the DokChain Health Alliance (initially called “the Blockchain Alliance,” but later renamed) which Maki boldly claims will “ultimately define the future of blockchain in our industry.”FundingIn March, 2017, GIS Strategic Ventures (of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America) announced an investment of $5M in PokitDok. The company plans to use the funds not only to further develop DokChain, but to expand their existing API service.The investment round brings PokitDok’s total fundraising to date to $48M.Overall, DokChain is off to a strong start. It has set a clear strategic goal for itself of becoming the AI-run blockchain network for the era of value-based care; it has established a path to integration with the wealth of APIs that its parent company continues to expand; it has landed an impressive set of initial partners with the DokChain Health Alliance; and it has attracted ample funding, alongside parent PokitDok, with March’s $5M round. Although there are other ambitious contenders, such as Gem Health, vying to become “the blockchain of healthcare,” DokChain has come out of the gate with a lot of promise.Follow PokitDoc:Developer Blog: fullmetalhealth.comContact us for more on blockchain healthcare startups.
Simply Vital Health – Blockchain Fueled Value Based Care.Simply Vital Health is using blockchain technology to clear a path for patient careData portability, track-ability and analysis is continually a problem in the healthcare sector. These deficiencies lead to lost time and money as well as deficiencies in patient care.  Fixing these problems will improve the overall experience and wellness of patients while saving time and money for hospitals and private providers alike. Fortunately, Simply Vital Health has developed a blockchain based based solution that is simple, easy to use and integrates with existing systems.Founder of Simply Vital Health, Katherine Kuzmeskas, MPH, has a strong passion for patient centric quality care. She saw opportunity for the makings of Simply Vital Health while working at the Center for Musculoskeletal Care. She states: “I heard physicians and nurses say over and over again how they wanted to be able to see how their patients were recovering after they left the hospital. Hearing directly from the clinical team that they wanted a more direct connection to their patients was excellent validation.”Virtually every provider is concerned with following clinically validated, government and insurance approved care plans to assure that the care will not be denied for payment. Simply Vital Health provides an online tool powered by blockchain technology that monitors and records providers as they administer every step along the value chain. If a provider forgets a step, they can quickly check the platform to see which process has been overlooked. One of blockchains key features, an immutable audit trail, enables providers a sense of quality assurance. If the government or insurance provider seeks to deny coverage, the process can be quickly and securely shared to confirm that all of the appropriate steps were taken.  This level of automated efficiency allows providers more time to focus on their patients, and less time worrying about record keeping.Similarly, providers are constantly concerned with the cost of care and revenue associated with care. Without careful monitoring, costs can balloon out of hand and cause major losses.  Simply Vital Health provides an extremely valuable tool that tracks payments and processes closely.  It includes the prospective payment programs and helps providers understand the true financials. This data is securely held with blockchain technology in an easy to use and understand format as well.Providers are often met with intense data demands from industry associations, internal efficiency standards, clinical best practices and of course government and insurance payment demands. Simply Vital Health allows for tracking of CMS programs including MACRA and APMs through its simple tool. It conducts advanced analytics and also intensive monitoring. Physicians and provider management will have a much better window into their operations. The tool creates custom reports and can be shared internally and externally through the highly secure blockchain format.Without these reports or data availability, audits and denials of payment are common. Institutions need to prepare for these consequences and take preemptive action to avoid the pain and cost of an audit or denial. Without a sophisticated tool that can access the correct data rapidly, an institution may be in store for a painful process, even if they have done everything correctly.Best of all, these monitoring and tracking systems integrate seamlessly into existing legacy software systems. While a back-end system run entirely on the blockchain is theoretically possible, it is still not a reality for almost any health care provider. For that reason, Simply Vital Health recognized that it would have to produce a tool that integrates with existing system. Their blockchain solution is easy to input as an add-on to the most popular existing systems. In addition, the company can work with providers to customize the solution to the individual demands of an institution.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes some of the leading companies employing blockchain technology in the health care sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the sector. For more information, please contact us.  A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Hashed Health, a Blockchain Healthcare Consortium.Hashed Health, a startup organization based in Nashville, has received $1.8 million to promote and develop blockchain-based healthcare technology. The sources are Martin Ventures and Fenbushi Capital.Formed in 2016, Hashed Health describes itself as a blockchain healthcare consortium. COO Corey Todaro mentions that it includes “a broad range of types of organizations”. These organizations will coalesce into working groups. A Development Studio will accept ideas from the working groups and bring them from the proof-of-concept level to commercial products.Hashed Health has joined the Hyperledger Healthcare Working Group. Its principal aim within the group is to work on blockchain libraries and protocols. Other organizations in the group include Accenture, Gem, Kaiser Permanente, and IBM. The working group’s aim is to evaluate use cases for blockchain technology in healthcare. It is turning over a set of 70 proposals to the Department of Health and Human Services.Hashed Health is working on Facilitating transactionsHashed Health’s gateway projects include a demonstration of the ability to “improve data liquidity” in provider credentials. Confirming provider credentials and enrolling them in payment networks is a tedious process today. Payers often have inaccurate information; according to Hashed Health, the information in their directories is often as much as 20% wrong. Establishing credentials generally takes over 120 days. Patients endure the delays and costs. The complexity of the system is a major cause of high insurance premiums and out-of-pocket charges.Hashed’s alternative is a “decentralized transaction layer” that holds provider information, including updates and corrections. “Digital data assets” are encrypted data items created by contributors to the blockchain. Only registered users can contribute, following the permissioned blockchain model. Transactions consist of transferring assets from one user to another, and all transactions are recorded on the blockchain. Client applications uses a REST API in peer-to-peer mode.Auditability is a central goal. Lightweight clients will be able to audit the transaction records, with complete verification rather than just random samples. They can work directly with the blockchain, eliminating the need for a secure server. Providers are required to retain complex documentation for years. Doing this is costly under traditional methods. Blockchain records keep all the information together, protecting it from loss or alteration. Anyone authorized to access them can identify omissions without much trouble.Blockchain Regulatory and cultural issuesTodaro recognizes that regulation is as big an issue as technology. HIPAA requirements for protection of personal information are strict, and fines for breaches can be huge. Sharing methods that could work in other industries aren’t always feasible in healthcare.Beyond that, he says that “the biggest hurdle to the implementation of blockchain is the industry culture in healthcare.” Existing business models are based on holding on to data. The idea of sharing data in new ways is “threatening to a lot of enterprises.” Todaro recognizes that requiring organizations to change their workflows will run into heavy resistance; the new technology has to fit the workflow. The consortium’s goal is to develop new forms of organization and build new kinds of competence. It aims for a regulatory environment that will let blockchain approaches flourish.The working group structure stresses collaboration rather than isolated development. Working together, they’ll be able to develop multiple proofs of concept in parallel, and the Development Studio will pick up the best of the ideas. Projects will stress open-source development.The ideas which Hashed Health is promoting sound excellent. Businesses will have to work together to develop standards, make secure sharing part of the culture, and obtain a favorable regulatory environment . How much does the consortium have going for it? Does it include any influential members? These are the questions Hashed Health will have to answer in order to prove itself.Are you ready to take the next step in the blockchain revolution? We’d love to talk with you. Contact us with any questions you have.
Yale Hackathon Presents RadBit for Medical Images.Who has a patient’s medical images? Will they be usable when they’re needed? A proposal at the 2017 Yale Healthcare Hackathon would put control in the patient’s hands. A blockchain-based system called RadBit aims at letting patients maintain medical images in a permissioned blockchain. A team of researchers from several educational institutions presented the proposal.Currently, healthcare providers retain images, and patients can sometimes get their own copies. This is a fragile system for several reasons:Patients may not know or remember who has the images. Providing authorization to obtain the images can be time-consuming when the information is urgently needed. Patients may lose image files. They may receive them on a CD, not copy it onto their computer, and lose track of the CD. (Many modern computers don’t even have CD drives.) File format compatibility issues can get in the way. Medical images are stored in many different formats, including ones requiring specialized software.The RadBit presentation included a prototype and proof-of-concept code, using an example blockchain.RadBit image managementPeter Nichol of Quinnipiac authored the article describing RadBit. A bit immodestly, he declared that his team’s work “stood out for creativity, practicability and commercial viability.” The presentation addressed uploading, storage, and retrieval and promised “patient-generated, patient-owned” portability for images.He is the co-author of a paper, “Co-Creation of Trust for Healthcare: The Cryptocitizen Framework for Interoperability with Blockchain.” A study of it gives more insight than the brief sketch of RadBit. The paper clarifies that the blockchain wouldn’t store the actual patient data but would hold cryptographic hashes for identifying and authenticating records.A permissioned blockchain is one where only authorized parties can update it or participate in validation. Bitcoin, the best-known blockchain example, is unpermissioned; anyone can attempt to update it, and updates are validated by consensus based on cryptographic signatures. Unpermissioned blockchains work well where participants are anonymous and only transactions matter. Permissions ones have advantages for establishing the identity of people and organizations.Questions remainLike many blockchain use cases that involve restricted access to confidential data, RadBit will have to address two issues to become a viable solution. One is the establishment of immutable, authenticated, readily available records. Blockchain technology accomplishes this. The other is storing the data in a way that’s available through the blockchain, with acceptable security and long-term viability. The RadBit proposal glosses over this, but it’s an equally important issue.The blockchain can’t hold medical image data for several reasons. It’s huge, and the blockchain would quickly become unmanageably large. It would need to be encrypted to prevent unauthorized viewing. Assuming that today’s encryption methods will never be breakable is a large leap of faith, so putting permanent encrypted records in public view is a bad idea. The images need a secure repository, and that brings us back to the problem of proprietary storage which blockchains try to overcome.Any archive needs to address certain issues to be useful. It needs a policy on acceptable file types. It won’t do a healthcare provider much good to get image files, if they’re in a format so obscure that it can’t open them.It needs a metadata policy. Most archives require a certain amount of metadata, so the contents are identifiable and useful. Perhaps this archive should require stripping metadata instead. If all the metadata is only in the blockchain, then the image files are less useful to thieves. At the root the question is: Who will control the archive and set its policy?Healthcare blockchain solutions need to provide not just an answer to the issues of authentication and access, but a way of dealing with the data records that doesn’t undermine the blockchain’s advantages. The latter part isn’t as glamorous. It involves traditional issues of large-scale data storage and security. Without it, the solution is incomplete.The report on RadBit provides a fascinating glimpse into one approach to blockchain health data management. Hopefully its creators will provide more detailed information soon.Do you want to get more involved in the conversation on blockchains in healthcare? Contact us.
Cyph MD Puts Healthcare Information on the Blockchain.There’s a natural tension between information sharing and privacy. Providing reliable health care requires having all relevant information available, but people don’t want just anyone knowing what conditions they have and what medications they’re taking. Nor are they thrilled with having a central authority manage everything. They want information to be reliable, available, and under their control. Startup companies are looking at technological solutions to this problem.Secure information sharingCyph MD offers a novel approach to the problem, using the distributed trust of the blockchain. Its creator is Brontech, a startup in Sydney, Australia. Brontech adapted the Ethereum platform for “smart contracts” for health information. Ethereum’s design allows people who don’t know each other to establish an identity and authorize a sequence of actions.A contract is basically an “if-then” requirement that two or more parties accept. The concept has many applications beyond business agreements. Software developers use “design by contract” to avoid defects resulting from unexpected conditions. In the healthcare realm, people who hold information contract with those who need information to release it only when properly authorized. The patient ought to be able to authorize releasing information, or to designate others who can release it.Identity is a key concept, since healthcare information is always tied to an individual. Most of us take for granted that we can establish our identities, but many people, especially those displaced by war and violence, can’t do it easily. All of us want safety from impersonation and identity theft. Co-founder Emma Poposka says, “We are trying to build a digital identity that’s like bulletproof, and that can be used by everybody, even by people who don’t necessarily have legal identities in their countries.”Cyph MD manages identity with hierarchical certificates. A hospital can issue identity tokens to all participating practitioners. How patients with minimal access to technology will establish their identity remains an open question, which Brontech hopefully will address soon. Perhaps biometrics will offer a solution.Gaining adoptionThe regulatory situation could pose problems for any blockchain-based management of health information. Many countries have strict regulations, such as HIPAA in the United States, of storage and transmission of personal health information. The blockchain approach is fundamentally different from the usual model of a central server which is carefully protected. Anyone can see the blockchain, but no single party is responsible for it, and its protection rests on the strength of its cryptography.Medical organizations are conservative about protecting patient information. Before they’ll adopt a new way of storing and conveying it, they’ll want a high level of confidence that it won’t leak information, either because of flaws in the technology or mistakes in using it.Since its usefulness depends on sharing, multiple organizations have to adopt Cyph MD before it offers much value. So far Brontech isn’t saying much about its customers. It will need to get at least one major institution, or a significant number of smaller ones, to adopt the technology before there’s a viable ecosystem.AccoladesIn CIO Magazine, Peter B. Nichol calls Brontech one of “the top three blockchain-based companies to watch in 2017.” Cyph MD was the “People’s Choice Winner” in the Westpac Innovation Challenge for ways to improve productivity in Australian healthcare.Brontech also publishes Owlee, for identity management. It uses the same blockchain technology as Cyph MD. Owlee offers peer verification and authentication of credentials and references.Revolutionizing how institutions share healthcare information and how patients control it is an ambitious goal for a startup company. Success would mean fewer mistakes in treatment, faster access to information, better privacy, and continuity for people experiencing major life changes.Contact us to stay updated on the latest developments on healthcare blockchain technology.
ONC Blockchain Winner: Accenture Proposal.This past August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began a “Blockchain Challenge.” Namely, they solicited white papers on the potential uses of blockchain technology in health IT to address blockchain’s potential contributions in the “privacy, security, and scalability challenges of managing electronic health records and resources.”ONC Blockchain Challenge Whitepaper Review: AccentureOf the more than 70 proposals, 15 were chosen based on multiple factors, including:the approach towards market viability; its creativity; the ability to inform and foster transformative change; the potential to support a number of national health objectives; and the potential to advance the flow of information.Among the ONC Challenge finalists was an eleven-page proposal by Accenture. Accenture’s proposal, titled Blockchain: Securing a New Health Interoperability Experience, aims at improving patient outcomes and interoperability via the integration of blockchain’s distributed ledger technology with existing IT systems. The proposal further focused on three specific applications “relevant to the mission of the ONC.”Secure and trusted care recordsCreating secure healthcare records into “an electronic chain of events, while preserving the provenance and integrity of the records.” Using access and control permissions in conjunction with solutions such as tokenization, pseudonymization or masking technologies, privacy and security of records would be improved.Identity ProofingStrengthening identity proofing, as well as linking between identities, by preserving a transparent record of “the declared identities of both patients and healthcare professionals.” In maintaining complete record integrity using the distributed ledger feature, auditability would be increased.  Therefore, healthcare fraud would more be more likely to be recognized by patients and providers, and then brought to light.Patient ConsentEmpowering patients by securing their decisions and directives within the secure healthcare record. If patient consent statements, access control decisions and directives were captured in an immutable blockchain, then healthcare professionals would be able to trust those statements and act on them accordingly.While the paper acknowledged that blockchain may serve as a cohesive force within healthcare’s complex data ecosystem, it asserted that blockchain “must be additive” and should not “invalidate” or “minimize” existing technology. Accenture further states that it “enthusiastically” supports the future of blockchain technology in the healthcare realm, and believes it to be a positive force in solving current healthcare industry challenges.If you’d like to learn more, feel free to contact us.
Contribution of Blockchain Technology to Startups.Security in the healthcare sector is paramount, and for a long time, many continue to ignore this fact, driven by various reasons. Other than that, traditional systems in use do not make it any better but continue to allow leakage of sensitive data that can act as leverage, to achieve something.Blockchain market approachStartups are increasingly interested in new technology in a bid to approach the market with new business models because this is the current need. New models prove resourceful when it comes to new value creation, innovative circular economies, and new ecosystems, which lead to overall success. In essence, that is what blockchain technology delivers to startups when they adopt it.Blockchain business modelStartups that focus on old systems are mainly interested in developing and marketing tangible products and services. Contrary to this, startups that take to blockchain technology, have option of having a product/service as part of whatever they are developing. The primary focus, in this case, shifts to a self-sustaining circular economy that runs on tokens or currency they own. It also incorporates the transactional loop of earning and spending tokens within the same ecosystem.Blockchain ownership modelDifferent from the aspect where one acquires preferred shares by buying private equity, which is the case in the traditional model, blockchain technology allows interested parties to obtain shares or tokens that the startup issues. For additional tips on how startups are embracing blockchain, kindly contact us.
Review of Healthcare Startups focused on Blockchain.The revolutionary nature of blockchain technology in storing data and intellectual properties is not limited to the banking and credit card industries, not by a long shot. Health providers and insurers are moving to blockchain platforms aggressively; the inherently safe nature of blockchain creates a secure haven for data as sensitive as medical records and statistics.Legal ramifications of data breaches: apologies don’t work anymore.Medical records by their very nature are private and sensitive. As is medical research and technology. More and more, companies with security breaches and data theft are being held responsible for that data loss, the consequences can be financially devastating.Enter Blockchain.Blockchain is a technology that arose from the Bitcoin dissemination worldwide. While bitcoin is both fascinating and unstable, the real take-away from bitcoin was the system designed to guarantee the security of all bitcoin transactions globally: Blockchain.How does blockchain work?A simple explanation of how blockchain works is that whatever data or information you are storing is sent down a line of thousands (even millions) of nodes. Each separate node has a kernel or piece of the information needed to create the whole. No single node has enough information for a hacker or data breach to make any sense of. Pair with that “security in numbers” concept, the encryption of each node to protocols different from the next, and you have a system guaranteed to be safeHealth companies are sitting up and taking notice.In the years 2016 alone, multiple healthcare companies have started with blockchain as their primary data protection platform.What to take away from blockchain technology?It is an asset to the medical field at every level. Every day we hear of more sensitive data being hacked by by some nation state intent on getting their hands on private information. Companies are now being held accountable for their data losses and breaches. The health industry needs to implement blockchain tech to protect their masses of sensitive data as quickly as possible. Myriad start-ups are responding to that need with blockchain platforms and secure infrastructures.When you are ready to learn more please contact us
Distributed: Health Inaugural Blockchain Conference for the Healthcare Industry.On October 3rd, technology and healthcare industry leaders converged in Nashville, Tennessee for Distributed Health’s first ever Healthcare Blockchain Conference. The event drew worldwide attention and offered cutting edge insights regarding the breakthrough blockchain trend in healthcare. The conference included an impressive lineup of keynote speakers, a 24 hour blockchain solution competition that unloaded over $30,000 in prize payouts, a Blockchain 101 course, and professional networking opportunities for those in attendance. The event appropriately took place in heart of Nashville, Tennessee, a world-renowned leader in the healthcare industry and home to 18 publicly traded companies.Global Healthcare Blockchain ConferenceThe event has been covered by several leading publications and media outlets and has received recognition for its premiere presentation of issues  to block chain in healthcare. Productive Edge released an article directly following the event based on the conference’s performance offering encouragement to healthcare-technology professionals and hopefuls. Their publication listed observations that included establishing the credibility of the industry and the urgency for knowledgeable blockchain technologists needed to balance the supply and demand scale.Blockchain in Healthcare HackathonThe conference also held great rewards for up and coming developers who were awarded for their project submissions in the 24 hour Hackathon that was held October 1st-2nd. Veripharm took first place in the competition, winning $12,500 in BTC for their pharmaceutical supply accountability tracking blockchain application. HealthySELFIE, an eHealth wallet app, won $8,500 in travel, while others won lesser prize packages. Complete project submissions from the Hackathon have been posted by Distributed: Health online, where visitors can connect with applicants and support their favorites.Industry professionals can look forward to more healthcare relevant blockchain events, conferences and contests to take place in the future as this trend continues to take off and create interest.
Healthureum Aims to Cut Healthcare Costs with Smart Contracts.Healthureum’s aims include these:To use the Ethereum blockchain and smart contracts to increase the interoperability and efficiency of healthcare services. To incorporate a token-based payment system, which will also be used to reward referrals and second opinions. To give patients ownership of and access to their medical data. To secure patient data cryptographically. To bring “S3” (standardization, scalability, and social responsibility) to healthcare services.Simplifying paymentThe most distinctive feature of Healthureum’s plan is the integration of payment tokens and healthcare information in the same system. WELL also uses tokens for payment between healthcare providers, but the token system is its primary focus.Healthureum aims at a strong set of healthcare information features as well as a payment system in a single blockchain. It aims at providing a “complete supporting ecosystem” for providers, not just a method of small-scale payments. A major aim of the token system is to facilitate cross-border services by making payment direct, avoiding international processing fees and currency conversions.The token is called the Healthureum, abbreviated HHEM. The HHEM will be the exclusive means of payment within the network. A Token Generation Event (TGE) ran in December 2017 to seed the system. It excluded a number of countries, among them the United States, Japan, and China.Making health data available and secureParticipating patients will have their personal, medical, and emergency data all stored in encrypted form on a single platform. Large data files, such as high-resolution images, would make the blockchain unmanageably large, so they will be stored elsewhere, with access through encrypted links.The system uses permission layers to control access, so that participants can read only the information that they’re authorized for. It promises instant access, so that the information is available in emergencies. Specialists will be allowed to see a subset of the patient’s data in order to provide a second opinion.Naturally, patients want to know that the people treating them and getting referrals are qualified. This can be an issue if they have a medical emergency in an unfamiliar place. Healthureum states that it will confirm that all providers in its network are legally qualified. The patient will be able to see a referred doctor’s credentials through the blockchain.Medical researchSome features of Healthureum aim at facilitating medical research. Patients who aren’t actively participating in medical trials can contribute their anonymized medical data. When they do this, they’re granting permission only for research purposes. Fraud in medical trials is a concern, since there can be financial incentives to make a treatment appear more successful than it was. Since the blockchain is safe against tampering, it guards against falsification of data.Future plansWhere is Healthureum going from here? In 2018, it plans to work with two pilot hospitals to implement and test its standardized data framework. It will test the alpha and beta versions of its data systematization application and gather data and credentials for doctors in the test program.After making any necessary fixes to the code and confirming regulatory compliance, the program will expand to five hospitals, adding the initial implementation of referrals and consultation. In 2019 it plans to add philanthropic activities and research programs.The biggest challenge which any healthcare blockchain faces is reaching a critical mass of adoption. To be useful to patients, it has to give them access to a large number of facilities and doctors. Healthureum is staking its hopes on the combination of flexible, secure information and a payment system in the same blockchain. If enough facilities adopt it, it could be a success.If you’re looking to learn more about blockchain developments for healthcare, contact us to become part of the conversation.
IncentHealth Leverages Chat Bots and Ethereum Blockchain to Incentivize Healthy Habits for the Underserved.Blockchain Startup Review: IncentHealthAs their name suggests, IncentHealth is a healthcare startup that aims to create incentives for healthy living. In an effort to help end healthcare inequality, the company will focus its blockchain-based platform and cyptocurrency based incentives on helping underserved groups reach critical health milestones. Their pilot project is a smoking cessation app and program that relies on a collaborative effort between patients, their support networks and their doctors.Platform and programAlthough the healthcare startup has not shared detailed specifics on their Ethereum-based blockchain platform, they do emphasize that the smart-contract powered platform will draw upon “lessons learned from clinical trials” on the efficacy of health incentives. The backbone of the smoking cessation program is a series of milestones, corresponding to health goals, that the patient must meet on their way to the larger goal of successful quitting smoking. Upon achieving each health-goal milestone, the IncentHealth program rewards the patient with a specific quantity of digital currency. The program will make use of predictive analytics to gauge when to make changes to the incentives awarded.IncentHealth digital assistantOne of the tools at the center of IncentHealth’s pilot program is a chat bot that keeps in close touch with the patient throughout their struggle to quit smoking. The IncentHealth chat bot is programmed to reach out regularly to the patient, inviting them to update their progress through quick surveys. It also arranges for them to talk to a member of the patient’s “care team” as needed. In the company’s chat bot demo, the IncentHealth chat bot reaches out to the patient after a stressful day at work. The chat bot asks the patient to rate their level of craving (for a cigarette) that day on a scale of 1 to 10. When the patient answers “9”, a more in-depth conversation ensues. When the chat bot learns that the patient has had a cigarette that day, the chat bot asks the patient to identify which, if any, of the most common triggers (peer pressure, stress at work, or withdrawal symptoms) led the patient to smoke. Upon learning that the trigger was work stress, the chat bot shares a link to a resource “about getting to a smoke free environment” to help the patient push through their stumbling block.User personasIncentHealth has made their exploratory user profiles, a common stage in the modern design process, public. Of their five user profiles, three are patients, one is a doctor and one is a health innovation director. The patients and doctors, such as “female smoker [who] desires a better way to quit” and “physician [who] wants to explore new smoking cessation models” play complementary roles in the IncentHealth smoking cessation program. When the smoker visits their doctor looking for help in their struggle to quit smoking, the doctor recommends that they try IncentHealth’s pilot program. When the patient accepts, the doctor logs into IncentHealth, chooses a form of payment (e.g. “CareGiver/ins support donate incentive program”), initiates the program and sends the patient a link to get started.Health directors, on the other hand, follow another process. The company’s director persona, a “health innovation director passionate about new incentive programs,” is looking for an affordable, innovative smoking cessation program to implement in her organization. She has chosen IncentHealth’s pilot program. After logging into the dashboard at IncentHealth.io, she reviews the worklists and performance reports associated with her doctors’ current smoking-cessation patients. She then exports the statistics, along with a summary of patient funding, to present at her next board meeting.Team and futureIncentHealth’s small team of five includes co-founder Daniel Schott, MBA, who CoinDesk featured in a recent article on U.S. blockchain-based healthcare startups, such as Gem Health and IncentHealth, looking outside the United States as they explore projects and partners. Schott explained that IncentHealth is finding the current U.S. health industry excessively restrictive and resistant to change. Consequently, IncentHealth is “looking to Canada” as a more welcome environment to engage in initial partnerships and prototype development.To learn more about healthcare startups leveraging blockchain technology, contact us.
Distributed Health Sept. 2017: Using Blockchain Tech to Lasso Healthcare.Last October at Distributed: Health, Hashed Healthcare announced their partnership with Martin Ventures to steer the healthcare industry into the blockchain age. This September, CEO John Bass and Chairman Charlie Martin will share with us details about their developing relationship. Expect to see some other friendly faces and meet new ones as world leaders gather to re-imagine today’s healthcare marketplace through implementing transformation technology into current infrastructure. Hosting a variety of speakers from Harvard Medical School and the CDC, to Aetna, to Intel Health and Life Sciences who will review opportunities and obstacles facing blockchain technology in institutional practices. Some leaders believe one benefit of this technology is to streamline communication between providers and patients. Crypto-mining malware isn’t new to cryptocurrencies and raises question’s concerning “crypto-security” and “immutability” that this technology claims to offer. Recently Ethereum (a popular blockchain platform) experienced another cyber-attack, though this time during the ICO phase. This begs the question: how secure is a programmed algorithmic self-aware system, if such software has already experienced two cryptocurrency heists? Hopefully this year speakers will discuss new coding developments to improve security measures and talk about how such a transparent system will meet HIPPA regulations, which were left hovering above the clouds last October. Perhaps recent events will light a new path, providing insights that may help to prevent future crypto-hacks.Schermerhorn Symphony Center September 25th-26th, 2017:Brought to you by Hashed Health & BTC Media!  Download The Event App Bizzabo!  You can PAY via Bitcoin!Healthcare Ecosystem a New MarketplaceSinclair Lewis’s literature wasn’t far off from envisioning the impact business and advertising would have on our culture as communication platforms evolved. Programmed to understand neuro-linguistics and graph human behavioral patterns, deep-chain self-aware software systems predict patient health habits to directly target marketing of products and services. Intelligent machines coupled with blockchain technology transform today’s traditional market into a virtual ecosystem. Smart devices connected to a blockchain cloud will digitally expand hospital arms into patient homes. The Internet of Things or inter-networking of smart devices, implemented with blockchain technology and smart contracts theoretically provides simultaneous immutable tracking of multiple data sources, like medical records and billing, in one de-centralized database. Imagine the limitless opportunities transformative technology will have on managing humanity’s health and wellness!Building Virtual ClinicsDigital connectivity provides an instant continual flow of information, leading to improved communication and care between providers and patients. An electronic health database and remote monitoring is especially useful for patients receiving cardiac or post-stroke care, as well as glucose management. Physicians: imagine the immediate impact and long-term effect of using a glucometer at home, with the added benefit of your patient uploading and sending the results to you daily. This will help Internists and Geriatric Specialists closely monitor glucose levels in their endocrine fragile patients. Peering through the screen, implementing a blockchain cloud system has potential to improve patient care while impacting the industry’s bottom-line, upstream and downstream.A few appealing characteristics:Blockchain Systems are attractive to employers and third-party payers alike! Software analytics predict patient health habits while positively impacting results! It’s more cost-effective to keep sick patients healthier and out of the hospital! Invest in the well-being of your community and see the value mirrored in the health of the population your institution treats! Intelligent machines offer solutions to long-term care by improving a patient’s access to their physician and open flow of communication! Incorporation of technological tactics opens the door to appropriating additional resources!This Year’s Featured Speakers:David Houlding~ Director of Healthcare Privacy & Security, Intel Health and Life Sciences  Lori Melichar~ Director, Pioneer Portfolio, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation  Jim Nasr ~ Chief Software Architect, CDC  Harold Paz ~ Executive VP & CMO, Aetna  Brian Behlendorf ~ Executive Director, The Hyperledger Project  Francois de Brantes ~ VP & Director, Altarum Center for Payment Information  John Bass ~ CEO, Hashed Health  John Sotos ~ CMO, Intel Industry Sales Group  Mike Jacobs ~ Engineer, OptumHurdlesAs of yet, cryptocurrencies have no sovereign regulation. Are crypto-coins just another commodity? In other words, what are they? Another red flag: blockchain technology risks detaching the human experience from medicine. A person’s real world identity is lost, though not a new problem in medicine, this technology may increase it. Too often are phrases heard like, “The kidney in 718 needs dialysis by tonight!” or “Are the sugars in room 1012 better controlled now?” Imagine how virtual examinations could intensify these kinds of interactions. Suddenly, the kidney in room 718 is an indiscriminate character behind a screen. Undeniably, connecting smart devices and medicine through the blockchain cloud offers solutions to redirect healthcare, though there are still bugs that need treated. This September, Distributed: Health speaker’s have an opportunity to provide us answers to last years question’s and address lingering security concerns!For agenda and registration link, visit the DISTRIBUTED: HEALTH 2017 event page.
BitJob Brings Blockchain to the Student Workforce Using Smart Contracts.It’s always interesting to shine a spotlight on startups that are doing something extraordinary to disrupt business as usual. Today’s post draws your attention to one such Startup Review: BitJob. At its heart, BitJob is a special kind of social network. BitJob is an important innovation for students, designed to help them earn money while they gain valuable work experience that will prove useful when they look for a permanent job.BitJob Brings Blockchain Technology to the Student WorkforceBitJob takes the idea behind the popular freelancer job boards — where job seekers bid on jobs — and focuses them toward micro-gigs. To do this, BitJob uses Blockchain technology to form a platform where employers and students collaborate to the advantage of both in Peer to Peer (P2P) networking. We think of it as concentrating the freelance workforce on “no job too small” platforms.How do student workers get paid?BitJob has two ways for employers to pay their student workers. They can use traditional, centralized payment methods, otherwise known as government legal tender. Or they can use cryptocurrency (think bitcoin), which is a decentralized payment platform (not government issued legal tender). BitJob’s cryptocurrency will be called : STU , The official STU crowdsale will begin on September 12th, while early birds can start contribute to this project at the exclusive pre-sale event, starting August 2nd. (Contact the team for more details).How do BitJob’s team are going to attract students to Join the platform?BitJob’s foundation is launching an affiliate marketing plan for spreading the word around the world, In order to reach as many students as possible, The team has came up with a wonderful reward program that will provide their partners with referee rewards and future dividends of every student they will bring into the platform, This way more & more Unions and councils can assist in bitJob’s vision of a global Students employment platform.How do employers and employees agree on the terms of the arrangement?No lawyers for these engagements. BitJob uses Smart Contracts for the work. Smart Contracts are a creature of Blockchain technology and, in this instance, supported by Ethereum Blockchain’s smart contract functionality.Smart Contracts are agreements created by a computer platform. The terms of the Smart Contract memorialize the negotiations between the buyers and sellers but instead of reducing those particulars to a traditional writing, encodes the terms, “written” as it were in lines of code.The contracts reside in the Blockchain network which preserves and distributes the information. The parties to the contracts remain anonymous. There is no legal system nor any enforcement entity needed. The contracts are “traceable, transparent, and irreversible”, according to Investopedia.com.BitJob PartnersSome solid companies have joined in partnership with this innovative platform. They include the Dutch Government’s Blockchain Projects, The Netherland’s Government, Blockchain Association of Canada (BAC), QBRICS, Blockchain Education Network, Cambridge Blockchain, Infolab, University of Florida Gator Bitcoin Club, and Blockchain Healthcare Review, just to name a few.From the Perspective of the Healthcare IndustryHow can the healthcare industry piggyback on this peer-to-peer model? Antiquated best describes our medical records process today. Many of the larger hospitals have graduated to electronic health records but individual doctors, especially in rural areas, have not converted. Their medical records are still filled by paper which makes it very hard to search.What we need is a way to connect the health records of our personal physicians to the health records in the hospital and to our lab results, and so on. Even the information currently stored on computers is not connected to other computers that have additional health information. Added to that, the individual servers that hold the medical information are easy for hackers to break.Blockchain technology holds out a potential solution to these connectivity issues. Just suppose, the modern medical record system encrypted an individual’s medical records and stored them on a peer-to-peer network. In much the same way that Blockchain currently stores financial information, or the way BitJob stores potential jobs, Blockchain technology can also store medical records.Once an individual designates a hospital or physician who then can access the system, all those disparate pieces of medical information come together. Such a system saves on paperwork and repetitive manual data input. Entering information only needs to happen one time because it is then shared among all people who have access to the medical records. And the individual controls how much information from his medical records he wants to give each medical provider.The U. S. Department of Health and Human Services is so interested in applying this technology to health care that it is reaching out to Blockchain technology experts to explain how it would work in a healthcare setting. In addition, MIT researchers created a prototype where they entered patient data such as prescriptions, medical history, and so on into a Blockchain platform. Then, they experimented to see if specific physicians could access the data. It worked well so now the prototype will expand to hospital networks to see how well it works in that setting.If you want to learn more about Blockchain in healthcare and its implications, read the marketplace.org article entitled “Using bitcoin’s technology to wrangle widespread medical records” which was an inspiration for this post.To talk more about how blockchain can impact your business, please contact us. We look forward to helping you understand Blockchain technology.————————————————————-For More details about bitJob – Please visit their site at: www.bitJob.ioContact : Dror Medalion, CEO   |   Email: Dror@bitJob.io
Patientory – Blockchain, A.I. and Population Health Management.Blockchain Solutions for Population Health ManagementPatientory is a healthcare start-up aiming to transform the way patients keep track of their health information by empowering them to manage their own health care. Although based in Atlanta, Patientory grew out of a collaboration between Boulder, Colorado’s Boomtown Health-Tech Accelerator and Colorado Permanente Medical Group (of Kaiser Permanente). They are also in partnership with Startup Health.Patientory has placed their focus on four inter areas: a mobile app, the Electronic Health Record, the health sector’s first crypto-token, and Patientory’s blockchain platform.The Patientory mobile appSimply called “Patientory,” the Patientory mobile app enables users to store, view and track their health care data using HIPPA-complaint blockchain technology. Patientory’s advanced patient profile gives users instant access to their:Medical history Doctor visits Medications Immunizations Health insuranceOn the Patientory blog, the team argues that the digitization of health care information not only has obvious advantages, such as instant access to one’s health data, but less immediately noticeable advantages as well. These include a reduction in lost data (e.g. from indecipherable handwriting); enhanced patient-doctor communication; emergency alerts (e.g. of life-threatening drug-interactions); and an increase in preventative care due to empowered and informed patients. More generally, Patientory claims that the digitization of health care data will increase healthcare quality and efficiency while reducing the nation’s healthcare costs by billions each year.Patientory and the EHRAccording to Patientory CEO Chrissa McFarlane, adoption of the Electronic Health Record has reached “approximately 90%” among health care providers. Nonetheless, McFarlane points out that recent security breaches have only worsened concerns over the privacy and security of EHRs. Furthermore, doctors and hospitals are often unable to share their information with one another. The result is not only an inefficient system, but a marked decrease in the quality of care. After all, every minute that doctors spend manually entering their patient’s data is another minute they could have spent with their patient. McFarlane maintains that blockchain is the most popular solution to the problem under discussion among technologists specializing in the healthcare sector. Patientory is building their platform accordingly.The Patientory crypto-tokenOn April 25th, Patientory announced that they were taking a bold step toward realizing the task of interconnecting patients’ EHRs (while preserving their privacy) with the introduction of the first crypto-token to the healthcare sector. According to McFarlane, the Patientory platform will transfer tokens—PTYs—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patients. The result: both a reduction in the cost, and an increase in the quality, of healthcare. Patientory’s token sale is set to open on May 17th.The Patientory platformOn a more technical level, the Patientory platform (a health information exchange or HIE) makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology to encrypt and decentralize data so that it distributed and HIPPA-compliant. As a result, with Patientory’s help, “the healthcare ecosystem” now has the means to embrace a blockchain platform and “to seamlessly exchange” information. According to Patientory, providers have every reason to participate, as the blockchain system promises to improve efficiency, eliminate redundancy and bring down the cost of care.Taking a broader view, Patientory sees a new model emerging for the U.S. healthcare system. McFarlane explains that the overall goal is to transition the healthcare system in the U.S. from a “pay-per-service” platform to a “value-based” platform. But to accomplish this task requires a trusted healthcare information system that enables participating organizations to track and reward “medical interventions” based on their “quality, value and effectiveness.”Overall, Patientory has a bold vision backed by a sophisticated app and blockchain platform. Yet the healthcare system has been slow to embrace systematic change in the past. Therefore, whether Patientory will succeed where others have failed in transforming the health sector is an open question. For fans of the “Facebook for healthcare,” a cautious optimism may be in order.Contact us for more information on healthcare start-ups utilizing transformative blockchain technology.
Simply Vital Health – Blockchain Fueled Value Based Care.Simply Vital Health is using blockchain technology to clear a path for patient careData portability, track-ability and analysis is continually a problem in the healthcare sector. These deficiencies lead to lost time and money as well as deficiencies in patient care.  Fixing these problems will improve the overall experience and wellness of patients while saving time and money for hospitals and private providers alike. Fortunately, Simply Vital Health has developed a blockchain based based solution that is simple, easy to use and integrates with existing systems.Founder of Simply Vital Health, Katherine Kuzmeskas, MPH, has a strong passion for patient centric quality care. She saw opportunity for the makings of Simply Vital Health while working at the Center for Musculoskeletal Care. She states: “I heard physicians and nurses say over and over again how they wanted to be able to see how their patients were recovering after they left the hospital. Hearing directly from the clinical team that they wanted a more direct connection to their patients was excellent validation.”Virtually every provider is concerned with following clinically validated, government and insurance approved care plans to assure that the care will not be denied for payment. Simply Vital Health provides an online tool powered by blockchain technology that monitors and records providers as they administer every step along the value chain. If a provider forgets a step, they can quickly check the platform to see which process has been overlooked. One of blockchains key features, an immutable audit trail, enables providers a sense of quality assurance. If the government or insurance provider seeks to deny coverage, the process can be quickly and securely shared to confirm that all of the appropriate steps were taken.  This level of automated efficiency allows providers more time to focus on their patients, and less time worrying about record keeping.Similarly, providers are constantly concerned with the cost of care and revenue associated with care. Without careful monitoring, costs can balloon out of hand and cause major losses.  Simply Vital Health provides an extremely valuable tool that tracks payments and processes closely.  It includes the prospective payment programs and helps providers understand the true financials. This data is securely held with blockchain technology in an easy to use and understand format as well.Providers are often met with intense data demands from industry associations, internal efficiency standards, clinical best practices and of course government and insurance payment demands. Simply Vital Health allows for tracking of CMS programs including MACRA and APMs through its simple tool. It conducts advanced analytics and also intensive monitoring. Physicians and provider management will have a much better window into their operations. The tool creates custom reports and can be shared internally and externally through the highly secure blockchain format.Without these reports or data availability, audits and denials of payment are common. Institutions need to prepare for these consequences and take preemptive action to avoid the pain and cost of an audit or denial. Without a sophisticated tool that can access the correct data rapidly, an institution may be in store for a painful process, even if they have done everything correctly.Best of all, these monitoring and tracking systems integrate seamlessly into existing legacy software systems. While a back-end system run entirely on the blockchain is theoretically possible, it is still not a reality for almost any health care provider. For that reason, Simply Vital Health recognized that it would have to produce a tool that integrates with existing system. Their blockchain solution is easy to input as an add-on to the most popular existing systems. In addition, the company can work with providers to customize the solution to the individual demands of an institution.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes some of the leading companies employing blockchain technology in the health care sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the sector. For more information, please contact us.  A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Healthcoin – blockchain-enabled platform for diabetes prevention.Diabetes is one of the biggest challenges in health care today. Due to changing diet and lifestyle patterns, more and more people are contracting this disease. In addition, the personal and public costs of the disease are growing rapidly. Fortunately, a company called Healthcoin has emerged to fight this disease using a combination of incentives and technology to influence the choice people make. They hope to prevent new diabetes cases and reduce the symptoms of current patients. Blockchain is a powerful new technology (used in the revolutionary Bitcoin monetary system), that creates an unbreakable mathematical string to store and exchange information. Healthcoin has taken advantage of this technology to create a system that aims to radically reduce the effects of diabetes.The cost of diabetes is simply exploding. According to one study, the global cost of the disease exceeds $827 billion dollars and 3.7 million lives annually. As the average age of Americans and people around the world gradually increases, more diabetes cases are expected as people become more sedative. That will increase continue to increase costs. One study estimates that a quarter of all adults in America will have diabetes by 2050.Personal costs of diabetes are also huge. The monthly costs of insulin ranges from hundreds to thousands of dollars. Additionally, individuals with diabetes find that they are more likely to face other injuries ranging from cardiovascular issues to blood problems to constant nagging lower body injuries. All of these issues cause more use of the health care system which means more out of pocket expenses as well as a higher overall insurance bill.However, Healthcoin has a revolutionary incentive system that tracks all of a person’s lifestyle choices. As they continue to make good choice, they submit biomarkers (like heart rate, weight, sugar level etc.) to a database run on the blockchain. Healthcoin’s algorithm then calculates the change or improvement in the health of the individual. Based on their improvement, they earn a certain amount of Healthcoins. Healthcoins can be used to decrease insurance costs, recognize achievement and demonstrate improvement with health care providers, friends and family alike.The key to the innovation is that the results of the progress are stored on the blockchain. The user and Healthcoin have complete control over who has access to the information. That means that the key personnel including doctors, family, insurers and the individual patient will have access in an unbreakable database. The patient may also elect to share the information with friends, an employer, the government or public health organization using the information for research. The data can be uploaded, stored and shared from anywhere in the world but is also completely secure using the blockchain technology.The incentive structure of the Healthcoin system also creates a strong impetus for the patient to make the right choices to improve their health. Those include exercising, eating right, increased everyday activity and better mental health. With the Healthcoin system, these choices are immediately reflected in biomarkers which are tracked closely. Improvement over time leads to a reduction of medical costs as well as a reduction in the costs the insurer will bill. Patients seeking to reduce their medical costs would be wise to make the healthy choices that reduce the symptoms of diabetes and are reflected in their biomarkers.Healthcoin’s revolutionary solution and technology are continuing to gain traction. While the firm is still small, its progress may help to tackle the serious problem of diabetes.Block Chain Healthcare Review is the leading site for understanding and discovering blockchain based healthcare companies. The site helps interested experts and community members to discover emerging companies, technology, personnel and news. For more information, please contact us.—–You might also like:Abid Hospital in Pakistan Accepts PakCoin Cryptocurrency How Gem is building a blockchain healthcare network
Healthcare Blockchain Summit in DC.Blockchain technology in healthcare is in its early stages. Many startups are promoting their ideas. Many products are competing for attention. Should health organizations move now or wait? Which standards will last, and which are dead ends? The Healthcare Blockchain Summit will offer a chance to explore the many alternatives.Everyone recognizes that existing approaches do a poor job of sharing personal health data. Security breaches cost healthcare organizations millions of dollars every year. Delays in authorization get in the way of treatment. Making information readily available while keeping it secure requires a new approach. Blockchain technology could provide the answers, automating the authorization process with peer-to-peer technology and cryptography.On March 20 and 21, many industry representatives will gather in the FHI 360 Conference Center in Washington, DC to present and discuss blockchain approaches to health data. Anyone seriously involved in this area should consider attending.Cooperation and standardsThe blockchain future will require widely accepted standards. The aim is to let a patient move data freely from a primary care provider to a lab, a specialty clinic, or a hospital as needed. If they don’t all talk the same language, this won’t be possible. Each startup has its own approach, but they will need to find common ground. One consistent set of standards has to emerge, and everyone will have to adapt their work to it.This still leaves room for many companies to provide parts of the solution. Cooperation and the development of standards will be a major theme of the conference.Government regulations back up the need for interoperability. The Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 requires the adoption by 2023 of an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace the distribution of certain prescription drugs. Manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers will need to adopt standard methods of product identification, tracing, and verification. The blockchain approach may be the best way to meet its requirements.Discussion topicsThe agenda will include speeches and panel discussions with representatives from startups, large companies, educational institutions, and government. Topics will include models for cooperation, business and economic issues, legal concerns, and patient control. Several speakers will look at the ways the financial industry is exploring blockchain. Bitcoin is only the best known of them. “Smart contracts” are important in finance, and they will be necessary to defining information access rights to health data.Current methods of conveying consent to release information are clumsy. Smart contracts not only build that information into the blockchain but enforce it. Their use to establish trust relationships, even among organizations with no prior relationship, will be among the topics on the conference’s agenda.Chairperson Jody Ranck’s scheduled opening remarks will stress the need for cooperation and standards. Other speakers will discuss the business models, the development of an ecosystem, and patient control. Sponsors include T-Systems, Peer Ledger, and Spiritus Partners.The conference and beyondThe optional Post-Summit Workshop will cover issues of designing and implementing pilot projects. Starting at 2:00 PM following the close of the conference, it will address business, engineering and legal issues in creating a blockchain application.The conference and the workshop will offer many chances to learn about the state of the art and make business contacts that will help in ongoing blockchain ventures. Meal breaks and a networking reception will let attendees catch all the events that interest them and still find time to talk with colleagues.The FHI 360 Conference Center is in the downtown Washington area, near Dupont Circle. Group and student discounts are available.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a Supporting Publication for the conference. Come talk with us while you’re there! Contact us if you’d like to learn more about what we’ll be up to.
September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge.As blockchain technology continues to improve and the ecosystem improves, there are more and more events to highlight the successes of the community.  As a distributed system of accounts, blockchain’s unique and virtually uncrackable technology as led to an explosion of applications that can improve the lives of humans around the world.  Although original uses were focused on finance, blockchain healthcare applications continue to grow and improve.  The September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge is one such event that highlights many uses of the technology, including especially applications.The event will be hosted by the National Institute of Health in Maryland on the 26th and 27th of September 2017.  The NIH is calling for people, companies or researches to present papers and new research about how to secure transmit and encode digital health care records. As part of the government’s requirements under Obamacare for hospitals to switch to digital health records, virtually all of the new medical records are stored on computers.  However, no single system or software is being used to transmit that data around the county to different centers about each patient.Fortunately, blockchain technology may be the solution to this key problem of the health care sector.  In fact, some of the paper’s that will be presented at the challenge have already been announced.One paper, produced by MIT researchers called “Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and Data” envisions a secure peer to peer network where patients can freely transmit their records to the medical providers of their choice.  This gives them the power and freedom to control who sees the records without the worry of the information being stolen.  That is because blockchain’s encryption capability makes stealing the data extremely difficult.Another paper by an unaffiliated researcher is titled “Blockchain Technologies: A Whitepaper Discussing how Claims Process can be Improved”. The paper discusses how the insurance claims process can be streamlined and smoothed for all parties.  The insurance and reimbursement process is one of the most infuriating and complex aspects of the healthcare industry for all involved.  Doctors hate the labyrinth of documentation needed and the all to frequent denials of routine procedures.  Insurance companies and the government hate to be overbilled or fraudulently billed by doctors seeking to provide medically unnecessary procedures. While blockchain technologies cannot solve all of the problems, they can make documentation and sharing much easier.  All parties involved will be more accountable as the medical information becomes more transparent, shareable and verifiable.The conference will be held at the National Institute of Standards and Technology which is a division of the National Institute of Health.  The NIST is key to formulating government policies and standards in the medical industry. Participants will have access to hear the latest from policy makers about the government’s attitudes and uses of blockchain technologies.The conference will also include updates on some of the government’s most ambitious blockchain technology endeavors.  For example, the Digital Bazaar Project is a task that could give every citizen a digital profile that is secure and interoperable on blockchain.  That would represent a huge step forward for the health care space in particular but also finance, voting and other record keeping.  The Xcelerate Solutions Project is another blockchain based program that allows disaster relief workers to identify themselves using blockchain technology and gain access to a disaster site for clean up.  FEMA is heavily involved in this project.Lastly, all of the challenge winners will be announced and prizes will be awarded.  Those prizes include grants to continue research.  Winners will also gain additional status in the blockchain community as an expert in government adoption.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a leading site providing the latest events and information about this critical sector.  For more information, please contact us.
Review of Zcash and Potential Applications for the Healthcare Industry.Zcash for the healthcare industry, providing ultimate privacy for patients and providersReview: Zcash, additional privacy for medical transactions.Zcash is the latest bitcoin-derived cryptocurrency, rolled out on Friday October 28 of 2016. Where Zcash differs from other cryptocurrencies is that all transactions offer full anonymity with every transaction. This privacy is further guaranteed by the use of public blockchain structures as the platforms of use.Complex cryptography to create true financial privacy.Zcash goes even further in providing private transactions by employing a form of cryptography called zero-knowledge proofs. Without getting too deep in the crypto speech, what zero -knowledge proofs create is the knowledge that something happened, but the outside observer has no way of knowing any particulars about that event.An example of ZcashYou start with ten wallets with one bitcoin each in them. 2 users employ Zcash transparency protocols. What is recorded on the blockchain is 10 bitcoins, 2 of them shielded. This is an oversimplification, but you get the picture.Who needs this kind of privacy?Lots of people. The era of cryptocurrencies being associated with nefarious deeds and transactions is ending. Here are some examples of people wishing to shield their financial transactions from scrutiny.Zcash and the Ethereum blockchain.The newest update of the Ethereum blockchain will include almost full functionality with Zcash protocols. Ethereum blockchain technology is revolutionizing the healthcare industry for the better. As Zcash protocols thrive and diversify, all blockchain applications will start providing zero knowledge proof technology to their clients large and small.Decentralizing the health care industry for superior security.Most noteworthy, blockchain technology and applications like Zcash make it easier for the individual or health care provider to access secure and private networks for their patient data and transactions. This creates a situation where both end-user and recipient benefitIn conclusionBlockchain technology is changing the way health-care professionals and organizations do business. From providing better security and safety protocols for patient records and transactions to creating safe data storage for massive amounts of patient data, health care providers are leaping onto the blockchain bandwagon. Any additional structure that aids in that process is a welcome. Zcash is another tweak to provide stable security and privacy during medical transactions. When you are ready to learn more please contact us.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
The CDC Exploring Several Blockchain Proof of Concepts.The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has become increasingly involved in the pursuit of blockchain-powered healthcare solutions this year. First, they began independently exploring several blockchain-based proofs of concept (POCs) to make health data management more efficient and secure in moments of crisis, such as a pandemic. Next, they embarked on a partnership with IBM Watson Health to expand their blockchain-based POCs. Together with the FDA’s separate blockchain-based projects, which are also in conjunction with Watson Health, there is clearly a move this year toward greater federal involvement in the adoption of blockchain technology in the health sector.The CDC’s exploration of the blockchainA recent article in the MIT Technology Review explains that the CDC has been actively exploring several blockchain-based POCs this year in order to “help public health workers respond faster to a crisis,” such as a pandemic. Currently, local health workers can use the CDC’s mobile app to log patient information and work out who should receive specific medications. However, the CDC’s current application continues to encounter a stumbling block when it comes to finding an efficient way for the CDC to store personal patient information while also conforming to strict federal privacy regulations. Jim Nasr of the CDC’s Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services, where he serves as the chief software architect, sees the blockchain as a potential solution to the problem, enabling the CDC “to store and share that data much faster while complying with security and privacy laws.” Furthermore, blockchain technology is inherently built to support the peer-to-peer data model found in the public health sector.Current project statusThe CDC aims to move from the POC phase to the real-world application phase in 2018. Meanwhile, a few challenges remain before the federal institute can go live with a blockchain-powered solution. The CDC team still needs to work out who will own the computer network where the health data will live; who will have read/write permissions; and how the CDC and others will manage IDs.New partnership with IBM Watson HealthOn October 24th, IBM Watson Health announced that they had teamed up with the CDC to explore the benefits of a blockchain-powered solution for collecting, sharing and managing healthcare data. IBM Watson Health sees the CDC partnership as building upon their current collaboration with the FDA as IBM further expands their efforts to bring about greater blockchain adoption. IBM’s chief science officer, Shahram Ebadollahi, and chief health officer, Kyu Rhee, emphasized that the research partnership with the CDC will focus on the connection between the blockchain and AI. According to Ebadollahi and Rhee, the primary role of the blockchain in POCs surrounding healthcare data is enhanced security. A properly implemented blockchain-based system “offers a level of security that will reassure all the various stakeholders in healthcare,” including patients, doctors and insurers. The role of AI, on the other hand, is insight. While the blockchain will securely collect and store the data, AI will “extract insights” from it.Although the CDC and IBM have not yet released further details on their blockchain-powered POCs, they emphasized that further details will soon follow.Federal blockchain adoption and healthcare’s futurePrivate sector startups will undoubtedly play an important role in increasing adoption of blockchain technology in the healthcare space. However, public sector institutes and agencies, such as the CDC and the FDA, are clearly going to play a critical role as well. In fact, because sensitive healthcare data is often collected and governed by federal organizations, blockchain adoption in the healthcare sector may be uniquely dependent on federal adoption to succeed.For more information on important blockchain-powered POCs in both the private and public sectors, contact us.
The Illinois Blockchain Initiative and Hashed Health.On November 30th, 2016, the state of Illinois announced the launch of the Illinois Blockchain Initiative, founded for the purpose of exploring the application of blockchain technology to key government data-handling processes. One of the most promising developments of the initiative since its launch is its recent partnership with healthcare technology innovation consortium Hashed Health. The initial phase of the partnership will involve a pilot program aimed at improving the medical license credentialing process in Illinois through the use of blockchain and distributed ledger technology.The Illinois Blockchain InitiativeEver since its launch last November, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative has been active on a number of fronts. Prior to its partnership with Hashed Health in August, perhaps the initiative’s most significant move has been to clarify state law governing cryptocurrency. On June 13th, the initiative announced new rules governing the use of cryptocurrency among individuals and organizations operating in Illinois. According to their official statement, given that cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum are not issued by recognized financial institutions they do not meet the definition of legal tender found in the Illinois’ Transmitters of Money Act (TOMA). Nonetheless, cryptocurrencies still contribute to net worth as they can be exchanged for legal tender. Businesses in Illinois facilitating the exchange are therefore subject to TOMA regulations and will require a TOMA license. Furthermore, the cryptocurrency owned by cryptocurrency companies will be considered a “permissible investment.”Hashed HealthLocated in Nashville, Tennessee, Hashed Health is a consortium of healthcare organizations largely devoted to spreading blockchain-based innovation throughout the healthcare sector. The consortium offers its member organizations blockchain technology support in product development, regulatory assistance and several other critical areas. Gaining access to the wealth of health expertise and technology guidance that Hashed Health provides, member organizations can launch new health-focused and blockchain-based programs and technologies more efficiently, effectively and affordably.The partnershipOn August 8th, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative announced a pilot program in partnership with Hashed Health to explore the application of blockchain and distributed ledger technology to the process of issuing and tracking state medical licenses. At a technical level, the project will make full use of smart contracts (small, dedicated programs that store and retrieve specific units of information on-demand) to update medical credentials held in the shared, distributed, blockchain-based system.According to Bryan Schneider, Secretary of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR), the pilot program they are launching in partnership with Hashed Health will initially enhance the state’s efforts to make medical licenses for Illinois health professionals more portable. In the long term, the program could potentially serve as a leading example of how all states could more effectively verify and otherwise credential medical licenses. Both providers and payers alike may one day have a national, shared, secure and efficient repository of medical license data, ultimately improving provider listings while streamlining the medical claims process.Jennifer O’Rourke, Illinois Blockchain Initiative’s Blockchain Business Liason, foresees “sharing our learnings” not only with medical licensing boards in other states, but with all parties with an interest in the project’s goals. CEO of Hashed Health, John Bass, sees the broader goal of the project as a bold proof-of-concept for the value of blockchain that will contribute to a “digital transformation” not only for the state of Illinois, but for the public and private sectors as a whole. Ultimately, they are trying to usher in an era of greater “transparency and trust” between individual citizens and their government.A promising futureOverall, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative is a bold attempt to bring blockchain technology to one of the most important bodies of data handled by state government: medical licenses. By choosing to partner with healthcare technology innovation consortium Hashed Health they are drawing upon a wealth of blockchain and healthcare expertise that should increase the odds that their pilot program will succeed. If it does, we should expect that the program will serve as a model for other states and organizations that are eager to take advantage of the promise of blockchain to help data flow securely and efficiently throughout the greater healthcare system.To learn more about the Illinois Blockchain Initiative and other developments in blockchain, contact us.
Nonprofit Government Blockchain Association Takes Lead in Blockchain Education.Whenever an evolutionary change is sweeping through the culture, the responsibility of good government is to ensure the evolution benefits the society as a whole. For the government to succeed in that effort, leaders of the evolution must step forward to educate lawmakers and offer their best advice.Enter Government Blockchain AssociationBlockchain technology already is well along in creating an evolutionary (some might say revolutionary) change in the global society. And a group has stepped forward to create a vehicle for blockchain leaders to provide that necessary education and advice to governments on a global scale.The nonprofit Government Blockchain Association announced its formation in April to serve as a platform for those inside and outside government who wish to ensure blockchain technology is used for the betterment of society.‘Positive Leveraging of Blockchain’GBA’s stated claim is to serve as a catalyst for creating an open and public dialogue around “creative, profitable and positive leveraging of blockchain.” As such, its membership is open to individuals and organizations who are committed to ensuring governmental regulation and integration of blockchain meets those aims.GBA seeks to provide resources for individuals or companies that are working with governments – international, national, state or local – to help them explain how this powerful technology can be used to improve citizens’ lives. The association also will conduct and promote networking, training and educational events.Beyond promoting and educating about blockchain technology and its potential uses, GBA also intends to promote open and just government that protects the freedom of all people. The association has created a five-point Ethics Statement revolving around the beliefs that, while viewpoints and perspectives may differ, governments must protect the rights of their citizens and use technology to improve their quality of life.Statement 5 states the goals clearly: “GBA will only pursue goals that serve to form a more perfect union between and among governments and the citizens they serve, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense of citizen’s rights and welfare and secure the blessings of liberty in a free society.”Blockchain Leadership on Global ScaleGerard Dache is the driving force behind the creation of the Government Blockchain Association. With more than 20 years leading military and commercial organizations, Gerard sees the potential for blockchain technology and recognizes the need to get ahead of government regulators in focusing its power for all citizens. Gerard’s role as a consultant with government contractors around the globe gives him a unique leadership position as President of GBA.Joining Gerard on the leadership team is Vice President Dan Callahan, who brings more than three decades of experience working to integrate technology into the operations of the U.S. federal government. Dan is the author of “Cracking The Code: The Professional Salesperson’s Guide to Penetrating the Intelligence Community.”Consider a MembershipAt its founding, GBA is offering free memberships, but this will change as the association grows and develops need for a budget. Members are welcome from all walks of business and government who wish to learn more and become a leader in your community or country in the coming blockchain evolution.Members will have access to resources, networking opportunities, training and more. Most importantly, members will have a voice for expressing opinions about policies, regulations and implementation of blockchain technology through governments around the world. Members will receive discounts on training events and other resources, plus access to unique opportunities.Blockchain Healthcare Review is proud to serve as a founding member of the Government Blockchain Association. If you have questions or concerns about how the implementation of blockchain technology could affect your role in the healthcare field, contact us.
Abid Hospital in Pakistan Accepts PakCoin Cryptocurrency.The Abid Hospital in Islamabad, Pakistan, has become the first hospital in Asia to accept payments in cryptocurrency. Patients get a 20% discount when they pay in Pakcoins.Abid is a fairly new hospital, opened in January 2015. It is primarily a surgical facility and lists a staff of nine doctors. It accepts a limited number of charity cases.While Bitcoin remains secure as the world’s leading cryptocurrency, it has become less suitable for some purposes than it used to be. It was the first of its kind, and its creator, the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, didn’t expect today’s widespread use. Transactions require confirmation for recipients to be sure they’ve been paid; otherwise, dishonest people could spend the same money twice. The time to complete confirmation has grown long, sometimes taking hours.  The associated fees have grown large enough to discourage Bitcoin’s use for small payments.Many alternative currencies have entered the competition, offering solutions to these problems. PakCoin is specifically aimed at Pakistanis, though it can be used anywhere. Up to 150,000 Pakistanis can get 50 Pakcoins (a very small amount at current exchange rates) for free. It claims “nearly instant transactions” and very low or zero processing fees. It’s derived from Litecoin, which was designed to handle higher transaction volumes than Bitcoin. Like Litecoin, it relies on an algorithm known as scrypt.Pakcoin and Litecoin use the same blockchain concepts as Bitcoin. There are multiple copies of the ledger. New blocks are created by “mining,” which requires computational effort and is rewarded by newly created units of currency. The code is open source.The advantages of cryptocurrencyAn interview with the developer of Pakcoin (who goes by the name Pakcoin) discloses some of its purposes. A key goal is to make it usable for ordinary people who don’t know much about cryptocurrency or blockchains. Eventually people will be able to associate wallets with user names, so that they can accept payments at an address with a recognizable name.Pakistan isn’t a wealthy country. The average annual income is about $1500 in US currency. Investment and savings are low. Only 15% of Pakistanis have bank accounts. Cryptocurrency can be a useful tool for people who don’t have bank accounts or credit cards. The challenges in Pakistan are strong; only about a quarter of the population has a mobile Internet connection. Smartphone adoption is growing fast, though, and could exceed 50% by 2020.The risksCryptocurrency remains risky. Some currencies have collapsed when their development teams fell apart. People who put all their money into Pakcoin could get rich or lose everything.Any new way of doing business opens up avenues for fraud, since most people don’t understand it in detail and can be tricked. If user names become a common way of designating wallets, spoofing of names will inevitably follow. Fraudulent exchanges will try to cheat people, taking money outright or misrepresenting market exchange rates.The value of a cryptocurrency comes from its usefulness in exchange, and every organization that accepts payment in it adds to its legitimacy and stability. In some parts of the world, such as Pakistan, more people have cell phones than have bank accounts. Cryptocurrency payments stand a reasonable chance of being widely adopted, since they’re a more accessible option for a large part of the population.Abid Hospital is small and new, but it might be the start of a trend. As more organizations adopt digital currency as a payment option, it will become more familiar, and the currency will stabilize. There are still many ways the scenario could go wrong, but it’s a trend worth watching.Blockchain technology has many potential uses in healthcare, from payment to sharing of patient records. Blockchain Healthcare Review covers them all. Join the discussion- contact us.
Healthcare Blockchain Summit in DC.Blockchain technology in healthcare is in its early stages. Many startups are promoting their ideas. Many products are competing for attention. Should health organizations move now or wait? Which standards will last, and which are dead ends? The Healthcare Blockchain Summit will offer a chance to explore the many alternatives.Everyone recognizes that existing approaches do a poor job of sharing personal health data. Security breaches cost healthcare organizations millions of dollars every year. Delays in authorization get in the way of treatment. Making information readily available while keeping it secure requires a new approach. Blockchain technology could provide the answers, automating the authorization process with peer-to-peer technology and cryptography.On March 20 and 21, many industry representatives will gather in the FHI 360 Conference Center in Washington, DC to present and discuss blockchain approaches to health data. Anyone seriously involved in this area should consider attending.Cooperation and standardsThe blockchain future will require widely accepted standards. The aim is to let a patient move data freely from a primary care provider to a lab, a specialty clinic, or a hospital as needed. If they don’t all talk the same language, this won’t be possible. Each startup has its own approach, but they will need to find common ground. One consistent set of standards has to emerge, and everyone will have to adapt their work to it.This still leaves room for many companies to provide parts of the solution. Cooperation and the development of standards will be a major theme of the conference.Government regulations back up the need for interoperability. The Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 requires the adoption by 2023 of an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace the distribution of certain prescription drugs. Manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers will need to adopt standard methods of product identification, tracing, and verification. The blockchain approach may be the best way to meet its requirements.Discussion topicsThe agenda will include speeches and panel discussions with representatives from startups, large companies, educational institutions, and government. Topics will include models for cooperation, business and economic issues, legal concerns, and patient control. Several speakers will look at the ways the financial industry is exploring blockchain. Bitcoin is only the best known of them. “Smart contracts” are important in finance, and they will be necessary to defining information access rights to health data.Current methods of conveying consent to release information are clumsy. Smart contracts not only build that information into the blockchain but enforce it. Their use to establish trust relationships, even among organizations with no prior relationship, will be among the topics on the conference’s agenda.Chairperson Jody Ranck’s scheduled opening remarks will stress the need for cooperation and standards. Other speakers will discuss the business models, the development of an ecosystem, and patient control. Sponsors include T-Systems, Peer Ledger, and Spiritus Partners.The conference and beyondThe optional Post-Summit Workshop will cover issues of designing and implementing pilot projects. Starting at 2:00 PM following the close of the conference, it will address business, engineering and legal issues in creating a blockchain application.The conference and the workshop will offer many chances to learn about the state of the art and make business contacts that will help in ongoing blockchain ventures. Meal breaks and a networking reception will let attendees catch all the events that interest them and still find time to talk with colleagues.The FHI 360 Conference Center is in the downtown Washington area, near Dupont Circle. Group and student discounts are available.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a Supporting Publication for the conference. Come talk with us while you’re there! Contact us if you’d like to learn more about what we’ll be up to.
What to expect at next year’s APAC Blockchain Conference.Next spring, technologists, business process experts, and forward-thinking industry leaders from around the world will convene at the University of Technology Sydney for the Asia-Pacific (APAC) Blockchain Conference 2017. Developed in partnership with the Australian Digital Currency Commerce Association (ADCCA), this two-day event aims to “look beyond the hype” of blockchain technology and to focus instead on real opportunities for cost-saving implementations across a broad array of industries. An impressively diverse panel of experts will weigh in, not only on the disruptive potential for blockchain technologies to improve business processes, but also on the various obstacles that remain to be overcome before widespread adoption and realistic implementation can begin.Although this conference is not specifically focused on the healthcare sector, there are a number of things on the agenda to be excited about for those interested in healthcare applications of blockchain technology. The first day of the conference is a plenary session in which panelists and keynote speakers will address such topics as:The latest real-world applications of smart contracts, highlighting those that move beyond mere regulatory compliance, product tracing, and service management. Design challenges currently hindering widespread blockchain adoption, including network integrity, distributed power, security, and rights preservation. The emerging need for skilled workers to make sure organizations remain competitive in the coming age of blockchain disruption.Ways blockchain technology may reshape local and global economic markets and the way private industry responds to the new contours of supply and demand in a world of distributed process automation. The regulatory framework necessary for organizations to embrace blockchain solutions and the responsibility of corporate entities to ensure adequate internal controls over open source technologies to reduce risk exposure in highly regulated industries.On day two, there will be two separate streaming sessions offered, and participants will have their choice of which to attend. Stream 1 focuses on banking and financial applications, while Stream 2–the one more likely to appeal to healthcare organizations–focuses on government, smart contracts, and industry applications. There are a number of topics in this latter stream that sound promising:Blockchain solutions for verifying and storing medical records and proving identities. Real-world security and anti-fraud applications, including some that may be relevant to regulatory compliance in healthcare services for protecting sensitive patient data. The potential for distributed data processing to reduce or eliminate human links in organizational structures–including, presumably, in healthcare organizations and those they do business with, such as insurance companies and government oversight agencies.Of course, we’ll be monitoring the conference proceedings with great interest, so be sure to stay in touch. Meanwhile, those interested in attending in person can find all the registration details here.
Moscow Blockchain and Bitcoin Conference.Recently, Russia has made technology news headlines, so Moscow’s Blockchain Conference, which kicked off November 10, fell in perfect time. Drawing crypto experts and leading industry professionals from all over, the second Moscow conference held this year was at times, “overcrowded beyond capacity” according to one reporter in attendance. Dozens of technology based representatives flocked to what has been hailed as “one of the biggest industry events in Eastern Europe”. Other news reported the Russia Bitcoin and Blockchain conference climate as “favorable” and several sources noted the impressive line up of speakers and registrants, leading to a heavy turnout despite cloudy weather.Among those expected, Fintech sector, with IBM, QIWI, Microsoft and Sberbank, were on the list. The conference presenters covered such topics as crypto regulations, financial tools, assets, industry challenges and various current projects. This conference held particular interest in part due to Russia’s questionably shaky stance on the issues surrounding digital currency and relevant technologies. Russia, and Moscow in particular, seemingly has created the location as a recognized space among bitcoin and blockchain world leaders, standing with other front-liners heading the industry’s future efforts.The conference, which had several renowned speakers over its course, opened November 10th with Tone Vays, a well-known blockchain proponent off of Wall Street. Bitfury’s product director was also among the opening acts, delving into the public and private relationship correlation. Overall, the event received positive, albeit scarce, feedback and contributors can expect a likely continuation of Russian influence in what’s to come. This year’s conferences lend to the establishment of Russia’s credibility within the sector and opens the door to furthering widespread participation in this highly charged area of technology based careers and services.Event details:  TrusTech – The Event Dedicated to Trust Based Technologies
ONC Blockchain Challenge Winner: MIT’s Experimental Learning Proposal.As part of the President’s Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI), in August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began their “Blockchain Challenge.” The ONC challenge solicited proposals on how blockchain may be utilized to improve healthcare IT and to enable a “new era of clinical care through research, technology, and policies that empower patients, researchers, and providers to work together toward the development of individualized care.”Of the more than 70 proposals received, 15 were selected as finalists. Among those selected was Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and DataProject, a whitepaper by less succinctly named PharmOrchard of MIT’s Experimental Learning “MIT FinTech: Future Commerce.”MIT’s proposal explored threats PMI data’s security, confidentiality, integrity and availability and presented he OPAL/Enigma project3 as a strategy towards mitigating those challenges. The OPAL/Enigma project3 creates a peer-to-peer network based on highly optimized multi-party computation and secret-sharing via a permissioned blockchain that records and controls access through smart contracts and digital identities. OPAL thereby enabling complete privacy in analyzing jointly stored data, increasing interoperability. In sum, the OPAL/Enigma project3 uses blockchain technology to resolve the tension between the creation of a secure environment for stakeholder Electronic Health Information (EHI) and the necessity of efficiency in sharing that sensitive information. And, as a secure infrastructure that doesn’t sacrifice the ability of exchangeability of data, OPAL would be a potential tool providing:resolution of infrastructural matters, such as time and cost  to the analysis, storage and manipulation of health information; a better framework for precision medicine trials; the development of more comparative trials; a more cost-effective development of drugs; and the development of more effective treatments to patients.The proposal focuses on the OPAL system as a platform for the creation of accessible (yet confidential) databases of patient information at scale, and the ability to utilize information for expansive and nuanced adaptive clinical medical trials. However, it also notes that the system would, on an individual level, allow for a more holistic treatment of patients via a shared medical history.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
ONC Blockchain Winner: Accenture Proposal.This past August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began a “Blockchain Challenge.” Namely, they solicited white papers on the potential uses of blockchain technology in health IT to address blockchain’s potential contributions in the “privacy, security, and scalability challenges of managing electronic health records and resources.”ONC Blockchain Challenge Whitepaper Review: AccentureOf the more than 70 proposals, 15 were chosen based on multiple factors, including:the approach towards market viability; its creativity; the ability to inform and foster transformative change; the potential to support a number of national health objectives; and the potential to advance the flow of information.Among the ONC Challenge finalists was an eleven-page proposal by Accenture. Accenture’s proposal, titled Blockchain: Securing a New Health Interoperability Experience, aims at improving patient outcomes and interoperability via the integration of blockchain’s distributed ledger technology with existing IT systems. The proposal further focused on three specific applications “relevant to the mission of the ONC.”Secure and trusted care recordsCreating secure healthcare records into “an electronic chain of events, while preserving the provenance and integrity of the records.” Using access and control permissions in conjunction with solutions such as tokenization, pseudonymization or masking technologies, privacy and security of records would be improved.Identity ProofingStrengthening identity proofing, as well as linking between identities, by preserving a transparent record of “the declared identities of both patients and healthcare professionals.” In maintaining complete record integrity using the distributed ledger feature, auditability would be increased.  Therefore, healthcare fraud would more be more likely to be recognized by patients and providers, and then brought to light.Patient ConsentEmpowering patients by securing their decisions and directives within the secure healthcare record. If patient consent statements, access control decisions and directives were captured in an immutable blockchain, then healthcare professionals would be able to trust those statements and act on them accordingly.While the paper acknowledged that blockchain may serve as a cohesive force within healthcare’s complex data ecosystem, it asserted that blockchain “must be additive” and should not “invalidate” or “minimize” existing technology. Accenture further states that it “enthusiastically” supports the future of blockchain technology in the healthcare realm, and believes it to be a positive force in solving current healthcare industry challenges.If you’d like to learn more, feel free to contact us.
Can Blockchain Help Alleviate Healthcare Costs for Seniors?.How can blockchain technology help allay the financial fears of seniors?Approaching retirement is often regarded as a happy time of life, looking ahead to when you can reap the rewards of all the hard work you’ve put in during the past 40+ years. But, a survey by PwC suggests it isn’t so positive for everyone. Some 50% of baby boomers – or those over the age of 50 – have just $100,000, or less, in their pension. That’s not enough to sustain an enjoyable lifestyle for long and is a sign of underinvestment, or a possible lack of interest in their pension over the years.With so many having so little saved for retirement, it’s easy to understand that as that time of their life comes ever closer, they’re worried about many aspects of their future. Financial worries, affording to cope with the unexpected and the rising cost of healthcare, all feature among seniors’ biggest financial worries. But, can the emergence of blockchain into the healthcare sector, help ease some of those concerns?Can Blockchain address the cost of healthcareBlockchain technology, simply put, is a digital way to monitor all costs and processes associated with any given transaction or project. Its use in healthcare creates a completely transparent log of every single action, function, cost and outcome, associated with whichever hospital, provider or insurance company that uses it.By having a digital log of everything associated with a doctor, hospital, pharmacy and patient, it should become easier to predict future healthcare trends, outcomes and costs. And, by understanding exactly what costs are likely for a healthcare provider to insurers, it should result in having fairer insurance premiums for each client, based on their most likely medical needs.In some cases, of course, this won’t mean lower premiums for customers. Nor will it always mean every healthcare provider will get it right, 100% of the time. However, it should have the effect of helping all healthcare sector businesses and those paying for health insurance, understand exactly what money is going where, when and why.There’s No Way to Plan for the UnexpectedUnfortunately, there’s no real way to plan for the unexpected. That’s a worry for seniors approaching retirement and for the healthcare sector.The most sensible way to calm those worries – for retirees and healthcare business – is to put more money away for the unexpected, or to ensure there’s a reasonable savings pot, just in case. However, if the worst happens and that savings pot is used, what then?Blockchain should be able to help the healthcare sector make plans to re-build it. But, many retirees don’t have the same luxury. The best answer, is to begin financial retirement planning as early as possible. Or, if you’re only a few years away from retirement, to take some financial advice, as to how you can maximize the growth potential of any pension savings you do have.Being prepared is the best way to cope with the unexpected. That’s why Blockchain can work for healthcare and hopefully, help ensure provision and insurance costs are fair. Sometimes that will mean lower prices, sometimes not.For the most part, though, it should help keep costs and processes transparent so reassure everyone that no-one is being overcharged and that the right healthcare will be administered when it’s needed.About the author:
Can Bitcoin Be Useful For Healthcare Costs and a Health Savings Account?.It’s become quite clear that the blockchain is going to be a very useful technology in the healthcare system. Often thought of as the truly impactful aspect of the emergence of Bitcoin, the blockchain allows for simplified record-keeping, transactions, and communication – and it may well be that we’re only just scratching the surface of its utility. In healthcare and elsewhere, people have been coming up with fascinating and useful twists on the blockchain for the last few years, and there’s no indication that innovation is slowing down. The possibilities are endless.Healthcare costs and you health savings accountBut while the blockchain is undeniably useful in this industry, can the currency for which it was initially developed serve any purpose? Can Bitcoins be useful in relation to healthcare?This may sound like an odd question, given how significant healthcare costs are, and how formal the payments tend to be. At first thought, it may seem like an industry in which Bitcoin usage just isn’t necessary or practical. That said, however, we have seen the leading cryptocurrency making its way into a few industries specifically with regard to making payments safely and securely.The first example that comes to mind is PayPal, which has partnered with a popular Bitcoin exchange to allow users to sell Bitcoin and cash out to their PayPal accounts. That basically means they can finance PayPal accounts through Bitcoin, partnering two types of digital transaction that exist for purposes of safety and security. PayPal is essentially meant to be a mode of online payment for which personal information does not need to be provided in individual transactions; Bitcoin is meant to be entirely anonymous, and therefore entirely safe. The partnership essentially compounds the feelings of security that Bitcoin and PayPal users typically feel.The second example actually involves the same two services, but specifically relates to online gaming. It is perhaps no surprise to hear that online casino platforms started accepting PayPal as a deposit and withdrawal method some time ago (for the same reasons of safety and security mentioned above). Going by the first example that means that some could be using Bitcoin to funnel money into these kinds of deposits. But we’ve also begun to see some similar platforms accepting Bitcoin payments directly – as a safe, efficient, and reliable means of payment.Clearly, a pattern is beginning to emerge. While Bitcoin is also useful for a lot of more casual purchases, such as those at online retail shops, some of the biggest adoptions of its use have been in industries where financial security is paramount. This could certainly be applied to healthcare, not because anonymity is particularly important, but because payments need to be made on time, and can be steep in nature.Paying for medicine and treatments, particularly when they may not be fully covered by insurance, can be a very significant hurdle. And complications, either with payments or with procuring treatment, can be devastating. The idea of having a reliable, digital means of paying for these things, in addition to a blockchain that records the transaction indisputably, will undoubtedly appeal to many patients. For that matter, it may benefit hospitals and pharmacies as well, as it could conceivably cut down on issues in which patients or those close to them may attempt to abuse prescriptions and get more than they should.It could also become easy and normal for people with Health Savings Accounts to fund those accounts via Bitcoin. We’ve already seen articles about adding Bitcoins to retirement funds, and the higher the price of the cryptocurrency soars, the more valuable this idea becomes. Now, an HSA doesn’t work the same way, in that it’s meant to be used rather than saved. But account values do tend to roll over from one year to the next, and some may like the idea of funding these accounts with Bitcoins in the hopes that they’ll appreciate, and thus lessen the need for further payments the next year.To be clear, these practices – buying medication or funding HSA accounts via Bitcoin – are not normal or even necessarily possible yet. But the way we’ve seen Bitcoin adopted in other industries in which safety, security, and reliability are particularly important, it will be interesting to see if the cryptocurrency can take hold in healthcare.
An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to Blockchain.An Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to BlockchainThe internet is an anonymous place, and that anonymity makes things like buying good or procuring services from across borders and seas quite easy. Unfortunately, the same anonymity also makes it incredibly difficult to keep a record of the transaction that is not nebulous. Thanks to a new system derived from Cloud Computing, much similar to Cryptocurrencies themselves, that is set to change.This technology is called Blockchain. And it follows a pretty simple scheme to get a retrievable, non-alterable account of all your online transactions via cryptocurrencies available for record.When you transfer a sum of money via Bitcoin, Ethereum or another cryptocurrency to someone else, the transaction is recorded in a block of data. This block cannot be altered or tampered with, which is the base of the transparency of the system. The data does not use your real world identity either, if that’s what you prefer. The data is thus certain and definitive, yet respectful of privacy.This block of data is then stored in folders. Several copies of this data are stored on multiple devices, giving rise to a chain-like structure if you trace the path of the information. This is what earns the system the name Blockchain. The chain helps ensure there are multiple copies of the data available, so that even if one device is inaccessible at any point of time, the data is still available. The data is reliable since the same can be verified across the links in the chain.What’s more, the makers of the system have even figured a way to reward members of the chain monetarily. This sum can be treated as compensation for the CPU resources and electric power consumed in the process.Blockchains have a whole other dimension where we may soon see them contribute significantly. One such unlikely sphere is voting. As vital as it is to any true democracy, voting and counting fraud is a reality that many budding as well as established democracies struggle with. Blockchain based online voting systems may bring a welcome shift in trends towards a more transparent and reliable system of representation, eliminating counterfeit votes as well as ballot stuffing.The system can also benefit systems where booking services from the government may be involved, since it can eliminate bookies and fake representations as well as sale of anything from train tickets to contracts in the black market.Corporates like Walmart too are waking up to the benefits this system could bring to them. Blockchain has the potential to be the inventory management tool the world has been lacking all this while, bringing us an easy way to order and sell raw material as well as finished product with every minute movement on the market and its trends. It could be the next market revolution after share trading! Isn’t that something?Author Bio: Stacy Miller has been blogging ever since she was in high school. Her love for technology and disdain for generic Hollywood movies has only grown over the years. You can find more of her writing on Techiespad.com
Healthureum Aims to Cut Healthcare Costs with Smart Contracts.Healthureum’s aims include these:To use the Ethereum blockchain and smart contracts to increase the interoperability and efficiency of healthcare services. To incorporate a token-based payment system, which will also be used to reward referrals and second opinions. To give patients ownership of and access to their medical data. To secure patient data cryptographically. To bring “S3” (standardization, scalability, and social responsibility) to healthcare services.Simplifying paymentThe most distinctive feature of Healthureum’s plan is the integration of payment tokens and healthcare information in the same system. WELL also uses tokens for payment between healthcare providers, but the token system is its primary focus.Healthureum aims at a strong set of healthcare information features as well as a payment system in a single blockchain. It aims at providing a “complete supporting ecosystem” for providers, not just a method of small-scale payments. A major aim of the token system is to facilitate cross-border services by making payment direct, avoiding international processing fees and currency conversions.The token is called the Healthureum, abbreviated HHEM. The HHEM will be the exclusive means of payment within the network. A Token Generation Event (TGE) ran in December 2017 to seed the system. It excluded a number of countries, among them the United States, Japan, and China.Making health data available and secureParticipating patients will have their personal, medical, and emergency data all stored in encrypted form on a single platform. Large data files, such as high-resolution images, would make the blockchain unmanageably large, so they will be stored elsewhere, with access through encrypted links.The system uses permission layers to control access, so that participants can read only the information that they’re authorized for. It promises instant access, so that the information is available in emergencies. Specialists will be allowed to see a subset of the patient’s data in order to provide a second opinion.Naturally, patients want to know that the people treating them and getting referrals are qualified. This can be an issue if they have a medical emergency in an unfamiliar place. Healthureum states that it will confirm that all providers in its network are legally qualified. The patient will be able to see a referred doctor’s credentials through the blockchain.Medical researchSome features of Healthureum aim at facilitating medical research. Patients who aren’t actively participating in medical trials can contribute their anonymized medical data. When they do this, they’re granting permission only for research purposes. Fraud in medical trials is a concern, since there can be financial incentives to make a treatment appear more successful than it was. Since the blockchain is safe against tampering, it guards against falsification of data.Future plansWhere is Healthureum going from here? In 2018, it plans to work with two pilot hospitals to implement and test its standardized data framework. It will test the alpha and beta versions of its data systematization application and gather data and credentials for doctors in the test program.After making any necessary fixes to the code and confirming regulatory compliance, the program will expand to five hospitals, adding the initial implementation of referrals and consultation. In 2019 it plans to add philanthropic activities and research programs.The biggest challenge which any healthcare blockchain faces is reaching a critical mass of adoption. To be useful to patients, it has to give them access to a large number of facilities and doctors. Healthureum is staking its hopes on the combination of flexible, secure information and a payment system in the same blockchain. If enough facilities adopt it, it could be a success.If you’re looking to learn more about blockchain developments for healthcare, contact us to become part of the conversation.
Healthbase Revolutionizes Healthcare Research Through Blockchain.
Hyperledger Pushes Forward Advancements in Healthcare.Hyperledger is an open source collaboration involving blockchain developers and big businesses. Hosted by The Linux Foundation, this growing community is pushing the boundaries of blockchain development with a wide range of projects. As you’ve no doubt gathered, blockchain apps are transforming the way in which we deal with data across a wide range of business sectors and the area of healthcare will no doubt benefit greatly from the current developments in this area.Why blockchain applications are a step forward for healthcare data managementThe move from traditional distributed database systems to blockchain distributed ledger systems will have far reaching effects that will benefit patients and medical professionals alike.DecentralizationWhen a user accesses a blockchain ledger, there is no obvious clue that the data is not centrally located. Blockchain gives the illusion of a centralized system, but in reality, the data is distributed across many different locations. This allows for greater collaboration, and all data is synchronized immediately. So a doctor, staff in a hospital, and the patient can all update the data held, yet no one individual can claim ownership of the overall system, be this the hospital or a third party intermediary. Therefore, there is no ultimate reliance on one single system. When all data is located in one place, a failure of that system can be catastrophic, especially in the healthcare business when there are literally lives at stake.A clear audit trail for accountabilityWhen using blockchain technology, an audit trail is created and cannot be manipulated. This makes it highly reliable. Additionally, a block can only be altered by the owner of that block, and so it is easy to find out with whom particular data originated, and who has changed it. Data can be validated, and so can be reused as a verified reliable source.Data is very secure and so privacy is assuredMedical records are highly sensitive. When a doctor records data regarding the condition of a patient, it is expected that the data is entirely confidential. While measures are always taken to protect such sensitive information, blockchain adds a very high level of security into the equation. All data is encrypted, and can only be decrypted when a user holds the private key to do so.The application of blockchain ledger technology within the industryIt’s not just the storage of patient records that can benefit from these new technologies. Blockchain developers for healthcare are working on many different aspects of the business to implement these technologies across a broad range of areas. For instance, insurance claim processing and research sectors. Insurance claims will be easier to audit, data will be more easily accessible by involved parties and fraud detection will be improved. Claims will therefore go through faster which of course will be of benefit to those who have put in a claim. With a higher level of fraud detection, the number of fraudulent claims will be reduced, and so policy prices could well fall. Data gathering for research will also improve, giving greater opportunities for study and advancement.
Luna DNA, a Blockchain-Funded Community Genomic Project.Enter Luna DNA, another interesting turn in the healthcare industry.What is Luna DNA?Luna DNA is “a genomic and medical research database powered by blockchain.” Luna DNA takes a community-based approach to gathering and sharing medical data. Traditional medicine often takes samples and other information while giving little back, a state of affairs heavily criticized for example in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, where despite having their mother’s cells used throughout modern medicine, the children and other relatives received nothing in return. While medical laws try to protect individuals from unwanted medical procedures and breaches of privacy, these laws can also act against the interests of people, giving no or little incentive to contribute their DNA and medical information. Luna DNA strives to undo this unbalance by giving community members Luna Coins, digital currency, in exchange for sharing their information. This give and take system then entitles recipients to receive assistance information in turn.Roots in Genomic ResearchLuna DNA has its roots in genomic research, where useful information often depends on a cross-section of samples. Without samples to compare, genomic research quickly becomes irrelevant, even impossible. CEO and Co-Founder Bob Kain and President and Co-Founder Dawn Barry both have roots in Illumina, a global genomics company working in everything from healthcare to agriculture. While working at Illumina and in other industry- positions, Barry and Kain saw firsthand the benefits of genomics together with the challenges facing researchers and consumers alike. They wanted to find some way to incentivize individuals to share their information, because the more information available, the better the research results. The better the research results, the more consumers should be able to expect in return. Thus, Luna DNA was born.Why Blockchain?Cryptocurrency like Bitcoin and Luna DNA’s Luna Coins represent a new way to hold and keep data secure. In the case of Luna Coins, the community invests, members of community hold their coins, and this information is available to all parties, keeping business transparent while keeping each individual member’s information secure. In many ways, a business like Luna DNA is a prime example of when and why cryptocurrency is so important. You want everyone (at least everyone in the community) to help guard your data, so that it will be impossible for someone to counterfeit or change what you have stored in your ledger. At the same time, you want the details including your ownership to be kept private via privileged encryption, so that not just anyone can see the details.Considering the stated aim of Luna DNA, to hold highly personal information in a shared database where everyone benefits in a mutually understood way, blockchain is the perfect technology partner for this mission. Luna DNA successfully raised $2 million dollars in ICO capital last year. On a practical level as well as a symbolic one, blockchain works for this business.Blockchain and the Future of HealthcareLooking ahead to the future of Luna DNA, of Luna Coins, and blockchain tech in general, one can see a trend developing, a trend toward decentralized funding and greater community involvement on all levels. As healthcare continues to become more consumer-driven, with secure medical records access online and on-demand, funding and investing will have to evolve keep up. Only time will tell, of course, but savvy companies and savvy investors will do well to pay attention these and other opportunities as they arise. Times are definitely changing.For more information about blockchain funding in the healthcare industry, contact us today.
VitalHub – blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider for mental health.Toronto, Ontario-based VitalHub is a blockchain-based healthcare solutions provider. Primarily serving mental health and long-term care communities, VitalHub’s software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform is designed to interconnect existing healthcare systems and data repositories through secure interoperability solutions. In 2017, VitalHub acquired EHR-provider HI Next (owner of TREAT), and healthcare platform-provider B Sharp. Together these acquisitions significantly expanded VitalHub’s offering and customer base. On January 11th, 2018, the company announced that it was officially entering the blockchain-based healthcare technology marketplace with plans to focus on blockchain-powered solutions that bring greater interoperability to the healthcare ecosystem.TechnologyVitalHub maintains that the rapidly growing blockchain-based IT solution marketplace presents a unique opportunity for properly positioned healthcare solution providers. As blockchain-powered platforms begin to reshape the healthcare IT landscape in 2018, VitalHub argues that it has four complementary strengths that position it for success in the blockchain-based healthcare solution marketplace: extensive in-house expertise; a management team seasoned in scaling global healthcare businesses; a large pre-existing customer base; and an IT team highly experienced in building innovative healthcare applications. As VitalHub enters the blockchain-based solution marketplace, it is positioning itself as a “Blockchain as a Service (BaaS)” provider addressing the challenge of interoperability “across the continuum of care.”Partnerships and acquisitionsVitalHub plans to seek partnerships with “global consulting groups” to help spread blockchain-based solutions throughout the global healthcare sector. In addition to these strategic partnerships, VitalHub aims to significantly accelerate its growth through mergers and acquisitions, a process that is already “successfully underway.” On March 24, 2017, VitalHub announced its intention to acquire two healthcare IT companies: HI Next and B Sharp Technologies. On October 5th, 2017, VitalHub further announced that it had finalized the B Sharp acquisition; and on December 22nd, 2017, VitalHub announced a “definitive agreement” to acquire HI Next.HI NextHI Next is the owner of TREAT, a fully hosted, web-based EHR and healthcare coordination platform used by more than 80 healthcare providers in North America. The TREAT integrated solution includes “over 100 clinical assessment tools” spanning a wide range of sectors including primary care, mental and behavioral health, and community care.B Sharp TechnologiesToronto-based B Sharp Technologies, founded in 1998, primarily provides EHR, clinical documentation and case management solutions for health, community care and social services organizations. Their solutions specifically address mental health, cardiology, specialty care, “complex continuing care,” long term care and pharmacy. In addition to their solutions, B Sharp provides business consulting and custom development services. B Sharp has more than 40 customers across Canada.TeamThe VitalHub executive team includes President and CEO Dan Matlow, who formerly held the same executive leadership position at Medworxx Solution Inc., a patient-throughput management solution provider co-founded by VitalHub’s VP of Mobile Technology, Andre Vandenberk. VitalHub’s CFO and Executive VP Brian Goffenberg, also from Medworxx, previously held financial management positions at Philips Lifeline, DWL Inc. and Delrina Corp. Peter Catford, HI Next Principal, is joining VitalHub as Chief Strategist.CompanyVitalHub, publicly traded as VHI on the TSX Venture Exchange, first established itself as a technology platform for developing mobile health (mHealth) solutions. The company maintains that their “platform provides the control, security, privacy and consistency essential in the healthcare industry.” With applications already ranging from clinical care to medical research, the mHealth platform provider is now expanding into blockchain-based solutions. According to the VitalHub team, a lack of interoperability among healthcare stakeholders has been stifling progress across the entire healthcare ecosystem. In response, VitalHub plans to develop and sell blockchain-powered interoperability solutions. VitalHub’s long-term strategic mission is to secure a global leadership position among blockchain-based healthcare solution providers. They aim to grow rapidly through mergers and acquistions, while selling innovative blockchain-based healthcare solutions to their existing customer base.To learn more about blockchain-based healthcare initiatives, startups, POCs and ICOs, contact us.
Supply Chain and Blockchain: The Future of Pharmacy.The interest in Blockchain and distributed ledger technology (DLT)has exploded in recent years with a large focus on the financial industry. Meanwhile, medical and pharmaceutical companies around the world are looking to DLT as a means of solving, securing, and streamlining their businesses. While there are many applications for DLT within the medical industry, one area where the technology excels is within supply chains. With sales ranging from US$163 billion to $217 billion per year, according to industry estimates, counterfeit pharmaceuticals are the most lucrative sector of the global trade in illegally copied goods. Fraudulent drugs harm or kill millions around the world and inflict serious damage on the brand names and bottom lines of major pharmaceutical manufacturers.A blockchain based system could excel in the instance of protecting consumers against counterfeit pharmaceuticals by encoding a log that would detail each stop within the supply chain. In this instance, consumers would be able to check a digital archive in order to ensure the legitimacy of their medication. The distributed nature of the technology ensures that all actors within the pipeline are not making dubious changes to the log. The Drug Quality and Security Act (DSCSA) is a regulation that requires an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace prescription drugs distributed in the United States. This law was originally passed in 2013 but won’t take full effect until 2023. Other countries are implementing similar programs. All manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers of prescription drugs in the U.S. market are required to comply.Blockchain’s immutability and provenance capability provide the basis for tractability of drugs from manufacture to end consumer, identifying where the supply chain breaks down. With the DSCSA regulations looming companies like MediLedger Project and SimplyVital are leading the pack with their healthcare oriented blockchain technologies. MediLedger is a collaboration between Chronicled and The LinkLab, bringing together both pharmaceutical supply chain and blockchain technologies. Their intention is to advance the dialogue of a blockchain utility to enhance pharma companies’ ability to manage their supply chains.SimplyVital has developed two products for the healthcare industry, both of which address different aspects; ConnectingCare and Health Nexus. ConnectingCare is designed for healthcare providers, such as a hospital. The technology enables customers to streamline data to save time and money. According to Lucas Hendren (Simply Vital’s CTO),“It uses care coordination and financial forecasting to help providers in bundled payments get insight into what happens to patients when they leave the hospital. It is a strategic early use case for blockchain in healthcare because it uses blockchain as an immutable audit trail.” ConnectingCare has already hit with its minimal viable product.Health Nexus which is another blockchain protocol crafted by Simply Vital is assisting the medical industry and consumer in storing, distributing, and securing medical data. Not only that, but Health Nexus will allow individuals to sell their data to interested 3rd parties through a secure pipeline and marketplace. Blockchain protocols like Health Nexus are likely to play a large in medical research. These protocols will also tighten consumer feedback loops and potentially save lives.Blockchain has already made an impact in the medical industry, and it’s only looking to gain speed from here. Healthcare Rallies for Blockchain, a study from IBM, found that 56% of surveyed healthcare executives had solid plans to implement a commercial blockchain solution by 2020. As the abilities of machine learning and artificial intelligence further leak into the medical industry, the need for a blockchain solution will increase exponentially.
Akiri leveraging blockchain to create trust for sharing healthcare data.San Francisco-based Akiri is a healthcare startup that leverages the blockchain to create a cloud-based, invitation-only network of trust for sharing healthcare data. Akiri recently received a $10 million investment from Health2047, which is backed by the American Medical Association (AMA). Akiri’s network, branded Akiri Switch, is their proposed solution to the medical and financial problems presently mounting in the healthcare sector due to healthcare data that remains “stuck in silos.”Akiri SwitchAkiri Switch is a cloud-based network of trust for sharing healthcare data. The Akiri team strongly emphasizes that Akiri Switch is not a health information exchange (HIE); nor an extract-transform-load (ETL) system; nor an electronic health record (EHR). Rather, Akiri Switch is a “software-defined network (SDN) and secure routing protocol” for transmitting health, wellness and medical data. Akiri Switch never stores healthcare information, but merely transmits it from one trusted subscriber to another, using blockchain technology for secure transmission. The Akiri team argues that their network has built-in support for a wide range of features that are essential to a robust, efficient trust network. These features span security and compliance; identification and authentication; and analytics and application support. According to the Akiri team, the Akiri Switch network is vendor-neutral and has the flexibility to transmit healthcare data between healthcare companies with entirely disparate database systems or “silos.”To illustrate the scope of their solution, the Akiri team maintains that their trust network offers something for all of the key participants in the modern healthcare ecosystem: patients will have greater peace of mind knowing their healthcare data is transmitted securely through a network of trusted partners; physicians will achieve greater access to secure, trusted healthcare data; providers will benefit from a greatly simplified and streamlined IT infrastructure; payers will enjoy reduced IT development costs; pharmaceutical companies will find it easier to comply with regulatory controls; and developers will have the opportunity to leverage Akiri’s open development platform to build transformative healthcare solutions.Akiri Switch is available by invitation as a subscriber-based service. Akiri Switch’s first subscriber is the AMA, the largest physician association in the U.S. with over 200,000 members. CEO of the AMA Dr. James L. Madera maintains that the present data liquidity problem, which Akiri Switch aims to help resolve, has been “one of the biggest barriers to improving the patient-physician relationship.” In addition to its first subscriber (the AMA), Akiri has also attracted its first partner-collaborator: Celgene, a leading biopharmaceutical company largely focused on cancer treatments.TeamThe Akiri team includes talent previously from GE Healthcare, Stanford, Apple, Cisco, and other leading healthcare and IT organizations. CEO Adriaan Ligtenberg, PhD, also serves on the advisory board for Health2047. His career has encompassed IT, healthcare, and investment, often in conjunction, as he worked at Bell Labs, taught at Princeton University and founded several successful Silicon Valley startups. COO Daphne Li, MBA, is also the Business Acceleration Director at Health2047, and previously held prominent positions at Apple and ADP after receiving her MBA in Economics from Stanford. The six-person team also includes a former director of Stanford Health Care, a former President of Engineering at GE Healthcare, and a former Software Development Senior Director at the Cisco DNA Center.Funding and missionOn January 3rd, Akiri announced a $10 million Series A investment from Health2047, which in turn received its founding investment from the AMA. Formerly Health2047 SwitchCo, Akiri is “the first spin out of Health2047.” Based in Silicon Valley, Health2047 describes itself as an “innovation enterprise.” With the help of the AMA, Health2047’s stated mission is to create systemic solutions to longstanding healthcare problems in order to bring about secure healthcare data liquidity; chronic care-focused healthcare models; “radical productivity” throughout the healthcare ecosystem; and value-based healthcare transactions.For more information on healthcare startups leveraging the power of the blockchain, contact us.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
CoverUS helps pay for your health insurance by using blockchain technology to securely broker your health data.CoverUS (pronounced “cover us”) is a blockchain-based, pre-launch healthcare startup that plans to reward its members with cryptocurrency in exchange for the right to broker their healthcare data. The startup won the Blockchain for Social Impact Hackathon in the Financial Inclusion category in November, and was featured in a FastCompany article earlier this month. Although no date is set for their ICO, CoverUS plans to hold a crowd sale of their utility token in 2018.The CoverUS missionCofounder and CEO Christopher Sealey argues that there are two problems in healthcare that CoverUS is directly addressing: one moral and one practical. The moral problem is that patients “should own their own data,” rather than be forced to sit back helplessly as companies buy and sell it. The practical problem is that a patient’s EHR does not tell the whole story of their health status, which requires the patient’s input. CEO Sealey believes that CoverUS’s solution can help solve both of these problems, while significantly reducing the patient’s healthcare costs in the process.The CoverUS appAt the center of the CoverUS strategy is a subscription-based mobile app. New users simply download and interact with the app, which stores their health data on their smartphone and serves as their digital wallet.The 21st Century Cures ActTo provide patients with quick access to their EHRs through the CoverUS mobile app, the company is taking advantage of a particular law within the federal 21st Century Cures Act, which mandates that as of January 1st, 2018, electronic healthcare systems in the U.S. must provide intuitive, open APIs that allow patients to easily access their EHRs.The blockchain: balancing privacy and sharingAccording to the CoverUS team, storing patient health data on the blockchain is necessary for two reasons: to keep the patient in the center of the decision-making surrounding third-party access to their data, and to achieve a balance between data-privacy and data-sharing.CoverCoinEssentially serving as a health data broker, CoverUS rewards patient-subscribers that allow the company to share their health data. The rewards come in the form of the company’s B2C digital currency: CoverCoin. CoverUS maintains that managing your CoverCoin account will be as simple as managing a frequent flyer rewards account. The app will prominently display the patient-subscriber’s total CoverCoin in their digital wallet, along with a list of recent activities that serve as credits and debits to their account. The mobile app prototype that the CoverUS team uses as an example shows a patient with a credit of “+75” for sharing their health data via a “Family Membership Survey” and a debit of “-120” for using their CoverCoin to pay for “Gym Membership Dues.” Two prominent buttons (Spend and Earn) lead the user-patient into the two complementary sides of the app.Tokens for healthcareAccording to CoverUS team, in order to incentivize healthy living, CoverCoin can only be redeemed for health- expenses. Cofounder Andrew Hoppin argues that if the company were to pay patients in cash, and they were to “spend that money on candy and cigarettes,” it would defeat the “virtuous cycle” of healthy living that CoverUS aims to reinforce.The CoverCoin wallet versus an HSAPatients can use the CoverCoin in their digital wallets to pay for many of the same health- expenses that health savings accounts (HSAs) provide for. However, the CoverUS team argues that their digital wallet is more flexible than a health savings account (HSA). Patients can redeem their tokens for a wider range of health- services and activities, including rides to a doctor or dentist appointment; childcare during a hospital stay; and gym memberships.Community sharingThere is also a community dimension to the CoverUS rewards program. By joining CoverUS, patients will also join the CoverUS subscriber community, and will learn about the health goals and financial struggles of other community members. If they wish, patients can transfer some of their rewards to other community members. They can also help other patients further their health- goals in non-financial ways and earn further CoverUS rewards in the process.Initial coin offeringAlthough CoverUS has not yet set a date for their ICO, cofounder and CEO Sealey told FastCompany that the startup plans to raise funds for their launch through a crowd sale of the company’s B2B utility token in 2018.For more information on healthcare startups utilizing the blockchain, contact us.
Curisium Raises Millions for Blockchain-based Healthcare Contract Platform.A new approach to outcomes-based healthcare contractsAt the core of the Curisium offering is an end-to-end solution centered around patient-level data and focused on value-based care.From patient populations to individual patientsWhile other outcomes-based healthcare contract platforms only address patient population data, Curisium addresses individual patient data. The company argues that their move to more granular, patient-level data gives their platform superior flexibility. When patient population data is needed, it can be easily aggregated from the patient-level data.From event data to patient-state dataThe Curisium team also maintains that their approach departs from another common tenant of legacy platforms: the focus on event-based data. According to Curisium, the focus among legacy systems on healthcare events generates sparse datasets that lead to relatively unreliable, opaque automated contracts. By contrast, Curisium’s health state-based approach leads to reliable, rich datasets well-suited for automated contracts and new insights.The issue of trustThe blockchain-based Curisium platform addresses the issue of trust directly. Outcomes-based healthcare data is generally locked away in separate silos owned by separate payers, providers and life sciences organizations. Unsurprisingly, previous outcomes-based contract platforms have struggled with the delicate task of convincing the various data-silo owners to trust eachother enough to share and aggregate their highly sensitive and heavily regulated data. However, according to Curisium, their platform provides “cryptographic guarantees” that reassure payers, providers and life science organizations that their shared data will remain secure. Furthermore, Curisium’s blockchain-based platform inherently provides an immutable record of all transactions, creating a built-in audit trail that facilitates verification and dispute resolution.Payment logisticsAccording to the Curisium team, legacy systems have had difficulty efficiently processing outcomes-based contracts. However, the Curisium platform has payment processing built in at a foundational level, leading to inherently efficient and affordable payment automation.The teamThe Curisium team is led by co-founders Peter Kim, CEO, and Francis Lam, CTO, both formerly of Aetion, a provider of evidential data supporting value-based healthcare solutions.Kim is the former VP of Engineering at Aetion, where he led the engineering and product teams to build their leading analytics platform running on “real-world evidence (RWE).” As co-founder of Curisium, Kim saw an opportunity to address the “costly logistics, lack of trust, and difficulty verifying patient-level outcomes” faced by healthcare and life sciences organizations limited by legacy payment platforms.Lam was VP of Data Science at Aetion, where he “pioneered the use of patient states” to greatly increase platform efficiency.FundingFive firms are contributing to Curisium’s $3.5M seed investment round: New Enterprise Associates, Shuttle Fund, Flare Capital Partners, Green Bay Ventures and Sanofi Ventures. Two investors will join the Curisium’s Board of Directors: Mohamad Makhzoumi of New Enterprise Associates, and Bill Geary of Flare Capital. In Curisium’s press release, Geary argues that Curisium “has the potential to rapidly accelerate the breadth and depth of innovative contracting arrangements” by virtue of its patient-level outcome verification and automated-payment capabilities.For more information on healthcare startups leveraging the blockchain, contact us.
IncentHealth Leverages Chat Bots and Ethereum Blockchain to Incentivize Healthy Habits for the Underserved.Blockchain Startup Review: IncentHealthAs their name suggests, IncentHealth is a healthcare startup that aims to create incentives for healthy living. In an effort to help end healthcare inequality, the company will focus its blockchain-based platform and cyptocurrency based incentives on helping underserved groups reach critical health milestones. Their pilot project is a smoking cessation app and program that relies on a collaborative effort between patients, their support networks and their doctors.Platform and programAlthough the healthcare startup has not shared detailed specifics on their Ethereum-based blockchain platform, they do emphasize that the smart-contract powered platform will draw upon “lessons learned from clinical trials” on the efficacy of health incentives. The backbone of the smoking cessation program is a series of milestones, corresponding to health goals, that the patient must meet on their way to the larger goal of successful quitting smoking. Upon achieving each health-goal milestone, the IncentHealth program rewards the patient with a specific quantity of digital currency. The program will make use of predictive analytics to gauge when to make changes to the incentives awarded.IncentHealth digital assistantOne of the tools at the center of IncentHealth’s pilot program is a chat bot that keeps in close touch with the patient throughout their struggle to quit smoking. The IncentHealth chat bot is programmed to reach out regularly to the patient, inviting them to update their progress through quick surveys. It also arranges for them to talk to a member of the patient’s “care team” as needed. In the company’s chat bot demo, the IncentHealth chat bot reaches out to the patient after a stressful day at work. The chat bot asks the patient to rate their level of craving (for a cigarette) that day on a scale of 1 to 10. When the patient answers “9”, a more in-depth conversation ensues. When the chat bot learns that the patient has had a cigarette that day, the chat bot asks the patient to identify which, if any, of the most common triggers (peer pressure, stress at work, or withdrawal symptoms) led the patient to smoke. Upon learning that the trigger was work stress, the chat bot shares a link to a resource “about getting to a smoke free environment” to help the patient push through their stumbling block.User personasIncentHealth has made their exploratory user profiles, a common stage in the modern design process, public. Of their five user profiles, three are patients, one is a doctor and one is a health innovation director. The patients and doctors, such as “female smoker [who] desires a better way to quit” and “physician [who] wants to explore new smoking cessation models” play complementary roles in the IncentHealth smoking cessation program. When the smoker visits their doctor looking for help in their struggle to quit smoking, the doctor recommends that they try IncentHealth’s pilot program. When the patient accepts, the doctor logs into IncentHealth, chooses a form of payment (e.g. “CareGiver/ins support donate incentive program”), initiates the program and sends the patient a link to get started.Health directors, on the other hand, follow another process. The company’s director persona, a “health innovation director passionate about new incentive programs,” is looking for an affordable, innovative smoking cessation program to implement in her organization. She has chosen IncentHealth’s pilot program. After logging into the dashboard at IncentHealth.io, she reviews the worklists and performance reports associated with her doctors’ current smoking-cessation patients. She then exports the statistics, along with a summary of patient funding, to present at her next board meeting.Team and futureIncentHealth’s small team of five includes co-founder Daniel Schott, MBA, who CoinDesk featured in a recent article on U.S. blockchain-based healthcare startups, such as Gem Health and IncentHealth, looking outside the United States as they explore projects and partners. Schott explained that IncentHealth is finding the current U.S. health industry excessively restrictive and resistant to change. Consequently, IncentHealth is “looking to Canada” as a more welcome environment to engage in initial partnerships and prototype development.To learn more about healthcare startups leveraging blockchain technology, contact us.
Universal Health Coin –  anonymous, token-based healthcare finance system.Augusta, Georgia-based Universal Health Coin (UHC) is a pre-launch startup building a blockchain-powered utility designed to provide a fair-payment platform for healthcare services. The AI-enhanced system will have UHC members fill their digital UHC Wallets once a month with cryptocurrency that will in turn pay their future healthcare costs. The UHC team argues that their system will cut healthcare costs for members by as much as 55%. Prior to their ICO in March, they are offering pre-purchases of UHC at a discount.+The missionUHC argues that there are two primary problems that drive up the cost of healthcare to new heights every year. First, there is an over-abundance of bureaucratic, administrative intermediaries standing in between the patient and the provider. In fact, UHC claims that 40% of healthcare costs in the U.S. are due to a combination of redundancies and bureaucratic/administrative record-keeping. Second, there is little to no free market for healthcare services, which leads to inflated healthcare costs that have reached an average of more than $10,000 per person in the U.S. in recent years.UHC maintains that their platform is a solution to the dual-problem of beauracratic inefficiency and healthcare-cost inflation. By creating a direct connection between patient and provider, the company aims to eliminate the costs associated with third-party intermediaries. Further, the team argues that their distributed, decentralized, blockchain-based payment system will help lead to a freer healthcare market that will curb inflationary costs.The processEach UHC member pays a monthly contribution toward their healthcare costs. The system converts their contribution into Universal Health Coin; stores the transaction as a block; encrypts the member’s identity; and sends the block to the UHC network for validation. Once validated, the block becomes an immutable record in the blockchain and the contribution appears in the member’s UHC Wallet. The wallet’s value is tied to the NEO token’s price.Upon visiting a health provider, the provider uses the UHC card or app to confirm the member’s capacity to pay. After providing the healthcare service to the patient, the provider updates the UHC block with information and notes on the patient’s visit. The system then encrypts the patient’s data and transmits it to the UHC network, which validates the transaction and adds it to the blockchain. Finally, the UHC network releases the member’s cash payment to the provider’s payment system.Provider adoptionThe success of UHC rests largely on the adoption of their payment utility by providers. The network of providers using the UHC card/app and accepting UHC payments will need to grow to the point that it represents a significant percentage of the healthcare provider ecosystem as a whole. Otherwise, patients will suffer from too few options to choose from and will likely phase out usage of the UHC utility.TeamChairman, CEO and co-founder Courtney P. Jones was also the co-founder of FindWhat, one of the early adopters of the PPC search model later popularized by Google. Courtney P. Jones argues that just as the Internet served as a platform for entirely new business models, such as PPC search, so will the blockchain.President, COO and co-founder Dr. Gordon Jones has two decades of experience working in healthcare cost and information management, and has spearheaded several healthcare finance apps.The two co-founders are joined by four others to round out the six-person UHC team. The greater group includes six advisors, three “expert mentors,” and three consultants.Token saleUHC is currently offering $5M of UHC pre-purchases to future UHC members. For the first $1M sold, they are offering a discount of 80 percent. The discount then drops through a series of tiers as more tokens are sold. The company allows pre-payments through a variety of popular cryptocurrencies: Neo, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Dash and Litecoin. The official token sale is set to take place on March 1st, 2018.To learn more about blockchain-powered healthcare startups, contact us.
HealthHeart Leadership, Formerly of Epic, Brings Blockchain To the EHR.Of all the industries that have taken large hits to their public reputation recently, blockchain and healthcare are two of the most prominent. New breaches and hacks seem to be announced almost weekly, leaving users and patients with little faith in their provider’s competency and anxiety over potential identity theft issues. HealthHeart seeks to allay those fears by bringing both HIPAA compliant electronic records and blockchain security to the table at one time.A Perfect Match?Founded by Mark Roudnitsky, formerly of Epic, a company familiar to anyone working in the EHR space, HealthHeart’s leadership team seems tailor-made for marrying blockchain and patient data safely and securely. To go with his IT and software bona fides, he has assembled a core team with experience in either tech innovation or healthcare. Rather than focusing solely on the IT security part of the project, however, HealthHeart has brought in practicing physicians to advise on user experience and provide professional insight into how the final product will be used. There is no better way to fill a need than work directly with those who have it.The Nuts And BoltsHealthHeart is built on Ethereum’s stable and much-used platform. This is common of many blockchain applications, as it keeps them from having to reinvent the wheel to get started. Each patient is given a unique indicator that is part of their Ethereum address. This indicator not only serves to identify the patient to the system but restrict access to approved parties for approved information. While the nuts and bolts of the HealthHeart software are proprietary, this is an elegant solution HIPAA’s mandate to provide the minimum amount of information necessary for treatment.On the user side of things, the HealthHeart platform appears fairly intuitive to any practitioner familiar with EHR software as it exists currently. There is support for both clinic laptops as well as mobile support that will work well with today’s increasingly connected and on-the-go patients. While all that is available to the public currently are mock-ups, the system is easily consistent with current technology and design trends.The BreakdownProsHealthHeart attempts to fill a vital need. Both providers and patients are ready for more effective medical security. In the wake of Bitcoin’s soaring prices leading up to the now aborted SegWit2x hard fork, the public has never been more aware of blockchain technology, albeit primarily as an investment instrument. This public sentiment could help drive adoption. As an investment, there is still time to get in while the bonuses are good. HealthHeart’s pre-crowdsale began in October, but the crowdsale is expected to run until the end of the year.RisksWhile the HealthHeart team looks amazing, there have been several high-profile security events in blockchains based on Ethereum recently. No doubt their security personnel are closely monitoring the developments and evaluating how it would affect their products and users. Adoption may need more than public opinion. Physicians tend toward conservative views, after all, it’s their practice on the line if a new EHR system exposes their patients.  As with any ICO, there is the potential for failure to deliver, both as a product and an investment. In HeartHealth’s case, however, they have gone above and beyond when deciding who to include in the development of their system. The common red flags, such as unknown and untested individuals, sketchy addresses, or poorly rendered marketing, are all absent.Another Tool For Doctors And Blockchain ProponentsHealthHeart looks like a nicely packaged, well-planned EHR offering for medical providers. It also gives blockchain another opportunity to show the public exactly how much this still-emerging technology can do for the betterment of society.If you’re ready to learn more about the blockchain innovations that are powering the healthcare of tomorrow, contact us for the latest news, reviews, and analysis.
Linda Healthcare Infuses A.I. and Blockchain to build Crypto Health Insurance.Over the past few years, more and more people have recognized the power of the blockchain to transform industries. In the over regulated, bureaucratic healthcare market, this is especially the case. Blockchain technology and innovative companies have the ability to revolutionize this market, create tremendous value, improve patient outcomes, create new treatments and pharmaceuticals while creating incredible companies that richly reward founders and management. Linda Health is one such company that is changing the market place with the blockchain. They have created a virtual medical assistant that is changing lives.Linda has built an interactive A.I. bot that automatically interacts with patients to ail there needs, respond to questions and advise on the best forms of treatment. The bot uses the latest medical diagnostics and research to prescribe the most favorable course of action. Best of all, the virtual medical assistant integrates the individual patient medical history into its guidance to get the best outcome for that is customized to each individual.Blockchain PrivacyThe blockchain is crucial for this effort because of the need for privacy. In order for Linda to function properly, it must access private medical records. However, traditional methods of storing these online in large databases are too vulnerable to hacking.However, this problem is solved with the advent of the blockchain. Linda can place each health account on an individual point in the public ledger. It can access the records through a invulnerable key use the cryptography properties of the blockchain. The records will be 100% secure and only available to trusted, pre-verified users such as the Linda AI bot. This radically improves the security and privacy of medical advice.Smart ContractThe firm has created a special contract called the Linda Token which is used to pay for the services of this AI system. Users can acquire these tokens to pay for the service and protect themselves from inflation. As the price of the AI bot rises over time, it will remain the same for the individuals who invested early on in the process. They will not have to pay the inflated rates that insurers or private individuals eventually have to pay for this ground breaking technology. Instead, the price will be $5 in constant dollars per month which is affordable for almost anybody for their long term care.The firm is currently preparing an initial coin offering (ICO) under the symbol LNDA. They seek to raise approximately $10 million denominated in Ether. That will represent approximately 45% of the total LNDA coin base at the time of issuance. Interested persons can sign-up at the company’s site. Those investing in the ICO will get a 10% coin bonus for their efforts.TeamThe Linda team includes some of the most prominent AI and medical researchers in the country. Arturo Devesa serves as the CEO and is currently an AI researcher at Stanford. His team also includes Julian Kates-Harbeck and Sasi Madugula who are Harvard and Stanford PhD students machine learning and medicine. The team is filled out by a number of other prominent investors, researchers and entrepreneurs at top global institutions.The Linda virtual medical assistant is poised to become a true revolutionary force. Using the blockchain, this technology will help patients and doctors improve outcomes and reduce costs. It is only a matter of time and execution.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a leading hub of information  to this sector. Professionals, entrepreneurs and technologists work together over this platform to improve communication and learn more about the growth of the health care block chain. For more information, please contact us.
How Blockchain Can Empower Patients.When people become involved with healthcare systems, they often feel out of control. They feel as though the control over what happens to them is in the hands of a system that is hard to understand and navigate. They may not feel as though they can ask questions, or they may find it difficult to contact someone who can answer their questions. Sometimes people become anxious; they may avoid seeking medical care for as long as possible. The use of blockchain can empower patients, give them greater trust in their healthcare providers, and make them more active and involved consumers.Patients Can Own Their Healthcare DataUse of blockchain technology can give people greater input into, even control over, the management of their healthcare data. As part of the blockchain, patients have equal access to their records and equal knowledge about what is going on with their healthcare.The chain can be designed so that they are able to more effectively give consent to who has access to their data. Blockchain can make patients a part of the healthcare team in a way that is often difficult to put into full practice with other forms of data management.Additionally, blockchain data is more secure and accurate. There’s not a central computer that can be hacked or a single server that can go down; confidential Personal Health Information is safer and more secure.Smooth Coordination Between Healthcare TeamOne frustration that many patients experience is the feeling that communication between them is not as thorough as it should be between the different members of their healthcare team. Data can be stored in many different disparate systems. They may find that test results haven’t been communicated to their entire treatment team, or their health history is incompletely transferred, or the hospital didn’t get the list of their allergies. Patients often feel that they have to be on guard for inevitable errors.In blockchain, every member of the chain is connected and data is updated in all of the computers at once. This improved communication and record accuracy could greatly decrease common issues like medication errors. Patients are able to have greater trust in their providers when accurate and up-to-date information is available for all members of a healthcare blockchain.Ability to Make Informed Choices of ProvidersPatients who are choosing a healthcare provider could be empowered by a blockchain provider review resource. Reviews on the internet can be suspicious; it is easy for an unscrupulous business to make sure only positive reviews show in search engines or for one disgruntled patient to make a good provider look terrible. For lay people, data from official boards and accrediting sites can be difficult to access and to understand.Patients know this, and it can make the choice of provider frustrating.  The anxiety involved in choosing a provider can cause a patient to avoid making the choice (meaning they also don’t receive regular medical care) or can lead a patient to stay with a poorly matched provider, to the detriment of their health.One of the hallmarks of blockchain is that it makes it nigh-impossible to cheat. Blockchain can be used to make an unmanipulable, objective provider review resource where patients can get up-to-date data, statistics, and reviews about providers, allowing them to make empowered and effective choices in their health care.Openness About CostsThe billing systems of medical centers are one of the areas where patients most often feel disempowered. Patients often find it difficult to get complete and clear information about the financial details of their healthcare; they may even feel victimized by the arcane billing systems involved in healthcare.Blockchain could provide clarity for many of the questions patients have, could lower the costs involved in maintaining the billing center, and can give patients reassurance that the money they are sending is being applied accurately. Patients can use access to accurate, blockchain-documented information to make informed decisions about the financial aspect of their healthcare, and they could trust that the information they are using to make decisions is accurate and up to date.Patients that are empowered are more likely to be active participants in their healthcare, to have less anxiety around healthcare provider interactions, and to make better, more informed choices about their healthcare.Blockchain has the potential to give patients back the power over their healthcare.For more information about how blockchain can empower patients and improve the collaboration of healthcare, contact us.
MintHealth Launches Blockchain Powered Personalized Health Record.The MintHealth platformAccording to MintHealth, 90 percent of today’s healthcare costs address chronic health conditions, where they have focused their initial efforts. MintHealth’s platform addresses both patients that currently have chronic conditions, as well as those at risk of developing them.The personalized health recordThe MintHealth platform includes a “self-sovereign” personal health record (PHR) that patients will use to gain direct access to their healthcare data, while controlling others’ access to it. Patients can restrict or allow access by changing permissions in real time on the blockchain. This empowers patients, according to MintHealth, “to be the CEO of their own health.”Secure, free-flowing health dataMintHealth emphasizes the importance of secure, blockchain-enabled “data liquidity” in their model. According to the healthcare startup, patients’ medical data is currently locked away in institutional silos. However, with the help of the MintHealth’s PHR, patients can take control of their health records while supplying providers and other healthcare stakeholders with the information they need to make more informed healthcare decisions.Incentives: VIDA tokensJust as car insurance companies often reward drivers that engage in safe driving behavior that help the drivers avoid accidents, MintHealth’s system will have participating health insurance providers, or payers, reward patients that engage in healthy behaviors that help patients avoid developing chronic health conditions (or complications associated with chronic conditions they already have).Specifically, payers will reward patients with VIDA tokens, the MintHealth’s cryptocurrency, when they engage in particular, healthy behaviors and activities. The company refers to this process as “gamification” and hopes to make engaging in healthy activities fun for participating patients. According to MintHealth, patients can then use their VIDA tokens to pay for a variety of healthcare expenses, such as premiums and co-pays.On the other side of the equation, the incentive for participating healthcare payers is an overall reduction in healthcare claims as their customers get healthier.The MintHealth TeamMintHealth has a large team of professionals with extensive experience as both business leaders and healthcare providers. The company describes their founders as “a cross-section of healthcare ecosystem industry leaders.” The team has an emphasis at the executive level on health data management and “personalized healthcare.”CEO Dr. Samir Damani is the  founder of leading healthcare technology platform provider MD Revolution.President Dr. Vishal Verma is the CEO of Nucleus Health, a leading health data management firm.CIO Dr. Jean Balgrosky is the former CIO of two leading healthcare organizations: Scripps Health and Holy Cross Health System (later renamed Trinity Health System). She also founded Bootstrap Incubation LLC, which invested in startups in the life sciences.Larger visionThe MintHealth team hopes to address the larger issue of rapidly rising global healthcare costs and poor health outcomes, especially in the U.S. In order to reverse these negative healthcare trends, MintHealth aims to help shift the industry toward greater sustainability and value-based care. The company maintains that rewarding patients for engaging in healthy activities, while giving them control over their own health record, will help make the transition possible.As part of their mission to achieve improved patient outcomes, advocate for patient rights, and establish greater trust between all parties in the emerging healthcare ecosystem, the founders have also launched a non-profit organization: MintHealth Trust.To learn more about blockchain-powered healthcare startups making change in the healthcare industry, contact us.
HealthyTail- Improving Animal Healthcare Using Blockchain.HealthyTail is a project built around TAILS tokens. It concerns itself primarily with the pet data economy.TAILS OverviewThe idea behind HealthyTail and its TAILS tokens here are to grow the community in order to gather data about pets. Pure breeds are particularly susceptible to this problem given that inbreeding creates a buildup of harmful mutations. In other words, the same process that creates breeds that are so wildly different from each other in the first place also leads to unique medical conditions. This is exactly the issue that the TAILS coin seeks to help counter.The Problem the TAILS Seeks to SolveOne the main problems that HealthyTail and the TAILS tokens are trying to solve involve pure breed cats and dogs. There are a number of problems that these pure breeds have which are specific to the breed. The problem is that there are so many pure breeds out there these days that there’s a lack of data about what problems they might have relative to the sheer number of dogs affected.Many people are looking for more lab research and data  to genetics that can help investigate these problems. The HealthyTail team is trying to connect all interested parties together via the coin. This includes labs, the breeders themselves, vets, those who own the pure breeds as pets, those seeking to win competitions and everyone else by using the blockchain.HealthyTail also has plans on expanding to the equine industry. “HealthyTail platform is fully applicable to equines. We have already received several requests on that. We are going to get into equine genetics and health right after cats and dogs. We are considering the possibility of changing priorities if we have relevant partners and/or investors” says Natalia Nifantova, CMO of HealthyTail.How the TAILS Token WorksYou can gain TAILS tokens by entering information into the database. On the flip side, if the goal is to take information out of the database such as gaining information about an animal breed, then you would pay TAILS into the database instead. This is how the project seeks to gain stability and eventually grow. As it gains notoriety, the idea is that more and more people will be interested in drawing from the database, so the token will naturally grow.Overall AnalysisThe coin is certainly backed by a unique concept, so competition isn’t likely to impede short. Transparency is a strong suit with the project as it appears to be fairly upfront about a lot of their approaches including how they spend their money, which is nearly half on data as well as a hefty chunk on designing and registering new drugs. Eventually they want these numbers to go up so that there’s more than a quarter spent on drugs after 5 years. The goal of the project is also to have there be economic efficiency In just two years. In terms of the TAILS coin itself, the goal is to put over three-quarters into the ICO.Overall, it’s an ambitious project that seeks to draw those interested in a more risky endeavor with a lot of room to grow. Obviously, when it comes to investing, the idea is that you should mitigate risk by investing in properties of various different levels of risk, so this could be more of a stretch risk option.For more information about ICOs and blockchain, please contact us today.
The CDC Exploring Several Blockchain Proof of Concepts.The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has become increasingly involved in the pursuit of blockchain-powered healthcare solutions this year. First, they began independently exploring several blockchain-based proofs of concept (POCs) to make health data management more efficient and secure in moments of crisis, such as a pandemic. Next, they embarked on a partnership with IBM Watson Health to expand their blockchain-based POCs. Together with the FDA’s separate blockchain-based projects, which are also in conjunction with Watson Health, there is clearly a move this year toward greater federal involvement in the adoption of blockchain technology in the health sector.The CDC’s exploration of the blockchainA recent article in the MIT Technology Review explains that the CDC has been actively exploring several blockchain-based POCs this year in order to “help public health workers respond faster to a crisis,” such as a pandemic. Currently, local health workers can use the CDC’s mobile app to log patient information and work out who should receive specific medications. However, the CDC’s current application continues to encounter a stumbling block when it comes to finding an efficient way for the CDC to store personal patient information while also conforming to strict federal privacy regulations. Jim Nasr of the CDC’s Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services, where he serves as the chief software architect, sees the blockchain as a potential solution to the problem, enabling the CDC “to store and share that data much faster while complying with security and privacy laws.” Furthermore, blockchain technology is inherently built to support the peer-to-peer data model found in the public health sector.Current project statusThe CDC aims to move from the POC phase to the real-world application phase in 2018. Meanwhile, a few challenges remain before the federal institute can go live with a blockchain-powered solution. The CDC team still needs to work out who will own the computer network where the health data will live; who will have read/write permissions; and how the CDC and others will manage IDs.New partnership with IBM Watson HealthOn October 24th, IBM Watson Health announced that they had teamed up with the CDC to explore the benefits of a blockchain-powered solution for collecting, sharing and managing healthcare data. IBM Watson Health sees the CDC partnership as building upon their current collaboration with the FDA as IBM further expands their efforts to bring about greater blockchain adoption. IBM’s chief science officer, Shahram Ebadollahi, and chief health officer, Kyu Rhee, emphasized that the research partnership with the CDC will focus on the connection between the blockchain and AI. According to Ebadollahi and Rhee, the primary role of the blockchain in POCs surrounding healthcare data is enhanced security. A properly implemented blockchain-based system “offers a level of security that will reassure all the various stakeholders in healthcare,” including patients, doctors and insurers. The role of AI, on the other hand, is insight. While the blockchain will securely collect and store the data, AI will “extract insights” from it.Although the CDC and IBM have not yet released further details on their blockchain-powered POCs, they emphasized that further details will soon follow.Federal blockchain adoption and healthcare’s futurePrivate sector startups will undoubtedly play an important role in increasing adoption of blockchain technology in the healthcare space. However, public sector institutes and agencies, such as the CDC and the FDA, are clearly going to play a critical role as well. In fact, because sensitive healthcare data is often collected and governed by federal organizations, blockchain adoption in the healthcare sector may be uniquely dependent on federal adoption to succeed.For more information on important blockchain-powered POCs in both the private and public sectors, contact us.
Technology Review – Oxcyon’s CentralPoint Platform.CentralPoint’s Single Sign-On SystemOne of the greatest aspects of CentralPoint is it allows each user to sign in and control the content they create or post. Similar to a CRM program, this takes things to a new level thanks to being a blockchain network.What’s unique about this single sign-on system is it allows a “cross forest” authentication process to allow people into your network from numerous places. This includes those outside your company when you need to collaborate on healthcare projects with people from disparate channels. Thanks to CentralPoint integrating with popular software like SalesForce, there few, if any, conflicts during sign-ins.Dynamic roles can also become assigned during sign-ins, giving more customized ways to control how people work and gain access to healthcare information.Providing Personalized Digital ExperiencesHealthcare organizations that deal in specific services can gain a lot using CentralPoint since it creates a harmonious platform designed for specific tasks.Using blockchain technology, one can create a private network to work on documents, webpages, mobile content and design for separate digital experiences. This information can then be shared among staff or users easily without worrying about data thieves infiltrating the network.Gathering Data on Each UserCentralPoint gathers staff analytics to help make smart business decisions through a private network so only designated people see it. Through CentralPoint’s rich business intelligence, gamification, and reporting, you can get a clear picture without concern about who has access.Industries That Can Use CentralPointYou’re already seeing this platform being used in fields beyond healthcare, including media, manufacturing, government, and non-profit organizations. In the field of healthcare, the use of blockchain already provides a secure network to share information with patients without security fears.CentralPoint makes it all the more attractive to the healthcare field thanks to what the company deems a “scalable wheel.” It basically creates a mind map that connects to numerous sources instantly while letting allowing for expansion at will.This feature lets creates a vast digital ecosystem connecting a user to an omnichannel universe, regardless of company size.Proving Worth Before You BuyCentralPoint allows for a preview the product to show its value before buying. Through their module gallery, they can build a high fidelity prototype of a desired healthcare project first to show off it capabilities.Contact Blockchain Healthcare Review to keep reading reviews of other software and services using blockchain to change healthcare for the better.
Blockchain Expo North America – November 2017 in Santa Clara.As the world of blockchain technology grows exponentially larger, a series of blockchain conferences has emerged for people to meet and share information. This upcoming fall, the Blockchain Expo of North America will be held in Santa Clara, California. The event will be held from November 29th to 30th at the Santa Clara Convention Center near Silicon Valley. Engineers, businesses and interested individuals from the region and around the continent will come to discuss the emerging technology. One of the hot topics of the convention will be health care uses for block chain. It could be a major opportunity for new companies and organizations to be born.The event will feature over 1,500 attendees and 60 speakers doing 20 different sessions. There is an enormous amount of energy around this event and will have multiple areas of interest. Healthcare is one of the largest areas of interest as it is such a massive opportunity and industry.For example, the event organized a prime panel called “Blockchain in the healthcare system”. The two main speakers include Diego Espinoza, CEO of Health Coin and John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health.These two individuals will discuss three main areas. Firstly, they will talk about moving patient data on the block chain. The technology allows new friction free transfer of data that has so far eluded other companies and information technology. This is a huge development for software developers, payment providers, health care providers, doctors and patients. It makes the whole system more seamless which allows doctors to catch symptoms faster or make diagnoses easier.  They also no longer need to fear prescribing medication that conflicts with existing drugs or that the patient is allergic to.Next, they will discuss data sharing including patient privacy and security. This is perhaps the most important concept because blockchain technology can protect patient data and encrypt information with 100% security. It accords with the HIPAA regulation and also leaves the patient feeling safe about the transfer of their sensitive information. Government regulators have already signaled their positive feelings about this technology for that reason. It seems that the security features of the blockchain will help it gain rapid greater acceptance for this sector in the future.Finally, the panel will discuss trial visibility along with automated patient consent platforms. That technology will help scientists improve the speed and viability of drug testing. It will reduce costs and ultimately bring drugs to market quicker at lower prices. Scientists will no longer have to use cumbersome distribution models to find patients in need of their drug trials. Rather, they can use 100% secure digital distribution models to link with consumers, achieve their consent and administer the drugs in partnership with a local health care provider. The end goal is that the price of drug development will drop from hundreds of millions of dollars to perhaps tens of millions or even a few million dollars. That would radically upend the current go to market path for a new drug and cause a revolution in the industry. That could lead to many new breakthrough drugs.While the sponsors and attendees have yet to all be confirmed, the conference promises to have hundreds of individuals interested in the health care market. So more people with interest in this sector will be attending the conference than many free standing blockchain healthcare focused events.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading hub for information about the blockchain technology  to the healthcare industry. The site includes places to learn, exchange information and meet new entrants to the space. It profiles existing growing companies and breakthrough technology. For more information, please contact us.
Robomed – Blockchain powered medical care using smart contracts.Blockchain has become one of the most important technologies in the world for more secure communication, and the healthcare field continues to benefit. You’re seeing more and more companies delving into blockchain technology to offer better healthcare services for patients.A standout is Robomed, a virtual medical network that offers smart contracts for patients and managed by a blockchain token. It’s an innovative system allowing better ways for patients to interact with medical facilities on sharing medical information and in paying bills. Patient-centered medical networks like this are still new to the marketplace. Yet, they’re about to snowball once Robomed proves its worth.Take a look at how Robomed’s process works and what it means for smart contract use in healthcare.Using the Robomed EHRAny medical facility in the Robomed network has access to their EHR platform that allows for unified storage of medical data and health management tools. It’s a unique integration not available widely yet.As a way to provide a single information space, it helps eliminate the old middleman concepts of standard medical networks. Patients and medical facilities have long had to endure too much bureaucracy, leading to delays in immediate communication. Plus, with standard networks, security still isn’t assured in a time when hacking occurs nearly every day.Through the Robomed EHR, the blockchain technology they use allows for a smart contract with patients, something possible using their own token.What Kind of Token Does Robomed Use?Known as the RBM token, this ethereum cryptocurrency gives a lot more freedom and security in transactions between patients and medical facilities. The benefit of using a smart contract like this is it gives freedom to vote on medical service value. This helps considerably in providing quality medical care to those in other countries who perhaps can’t afford certain services.Keep in mind that if you join Robomed, you have to agree to use the RBM token as payment to medical facilities in the network. They’re easy to use, though, and the pre-sale starts on October 25th. The ICO runs from November 1st through the 30th.In total, they’re releasing 1,675,000,000 RBM tokens with a final release date on November 31.All the funds received from these tokens are going to go toward developing and improving a smart ecosystem smart contract.Using the Smart Contract in the Robomed EHRThanks to blockchain technology bringing more transparency to communication and transactions, it opens a lot of new possibilities through Robomed’s EHR platform.It now offers the ability to provide a digital patient chart both parties can easily access without worry of hacking. It’s also possible to keep a transparent schedule for specialists, plus real-time monitoring of all personnel actions. Better tracking of staff salaries is possible here, proving the worth of smart contracts.Most importantly, it opens a private network for medical staff to make smart decisions without fear of data being compromised.Other Digital Uses for RobomedOnce you start using the Robomed platform, you’ll be able to use it for telemedicine technology, giving your patients more confidence in providing personal information. Analytics are available to see how effective medical facility advertising is.Additionally, they offer a mobile version of the platform, as well as one for the web. Through the mobile edition, it’s possible to provide even more convenience with telemedicine consultations. It’s also easy for patients to do scheduling without having to call in on busy phone lines. All patients can control who sees their medical information, and vice versa.As Robomed advances, we expect to see this imitated everywhere soon in the healthcare industry.Contact us at Block Chain Healthcare Review as we review more healthcare companies providing blockchain technologies for transparent smart contract use.
Can Bitcoin Be Useful For Healthcare Costs and a Health Savings Account?.It’s become quite clear that the blockchain is going to be a very useful technology in the healthcare system. Often thought of as the truly impactful aspect of the emergence of Bitcoin, the blockchain allows for simplified record-keeping, transactions, and communication – and it may well be that we’re only just scratching the surface of its utility. In healthcare and elsewhere, people have been coming up with fascinating and useful twists on the blockchain for the last few years, and there’s no indication that innovation is slowing down. The possibilities are endless.Healthcare costs and you health savings accountBut while the blockchain is undeniably useful in this industry, can the currency for which it was initially developed serve any purpose? Can Bitcoins be useful in relation to healthcare?This may sound like an odd question, given how significant healthcare costs are, and how formal the payments tend to be. At first thought, it may seem like an industry in which Bitcoin usage just isn’t necessary or practical. That said, however, we have seen the leading cryptocurrency making its way into a few industries specifically with regard to making payments safely and securely.The first example that comes to mind is PayPal, which has partnered with a popular Bitcoin exchange to allow users to sell Bitcoin and cash out to their PayPal accounts. That basically means they can finance PayPal accounts through Bitcoin, partnering two types of digital transaction that exist for purposes of safety and security. PayPal is essentially meant to be a mode of online payment for which personal information does not need to be provided in individual transactions; Bitcoin is meant to be entirely anonymous, and therefore entirely safe. The partnership essentially compounds the feelings of security that Bitcoin and PayPal users typically feel.The second example actually involves the same two services, but specifically relates to online gaming. It is perhaps no surprise to hear that online casino platforms started accepting PayPal as a deposit and withdrawal method some time ago (for the same reasons of safety and security mentioned above). Going by the first example that means that some could be using Bitcoin to funnel money into these kinds of deposits. But we’ve also begun to see some similar platforms accepting Bitcoin payments directly – as a safe, efficient, and reliable means of payment.Clearly, a pattern is beginning to emerge. While Bitcoin is also useful for a lot of more casual purchases, such as those at online retail shops, some of the biggest adoptions of its use have been in industries where financial security is paramount. This could certainly be applied to healthcare, not because anonymity is particularly important, but because payments need to be made on time, and can be steep in nature.Paying for medicine and treatments, particularly when they may not be fully covered by insurance, can be a very significant hurdle. And complications, either with payments or with procuring treatment, can be devastating. The idea of having a reliable, digital means of paying for these things, in addition to a blockchain that records the transaction indisputably, will undoubtedly appeal to many patients. For that matter, it may benefit hospitals and pharmacies as well, as it could conceivably cut down on issues in which patients or those close to them may attempt to abuse prescriptions and get more than they should.It could also become easy and normal for people with Health Savings Accounts to fund those accounts via Bitcoin. We’ve already seen articles about adding Bitcoins to retirement funds, and the higher the price of the cryptocurrency soars, the more valuable this idea becomes. Now, an HSA doesn’t work the same way, in that it’s meant to be used rather than saved. But account values do tend to roll over from one year to the next, and some may like the idea of funding these accounts with Bitcoins in the hopes that they’ll appreciate, and thus lessen the need for further payments the next year.To be clear, these practices – buying medication or funding HSA accounts via Bitcoin – are not normal or even necessarily possible yet. But the way we’ve seen Bitcoin adopted in other industries in which safety, security, and reliability are particularly important, it will be interesting to see if the cryptocurrency can take hold in healthcare.
2017 Distributed: Health – Nashville, TN.Distributed: Health Conference OverviewThe conference targets the healthcare, law and IT services industries. This year’s program provides conference sessions and three key learning opportunities for registrants: a two unit continuing legal education component, a 24-hour hack-a-thon for developers and a code camp. The CLE is open to attorneys and non-attorneys. Its track requires advance registration and costs $199. The hack-a-thon competition’s objective is to build and demonstrate an original blockchain-powered application. The competition offers prizes of more than $10,000. The code camp provides hands-on workshops for all levels of blockchain developers. The camp costs $50 and meets at The Bell Tower from 9:30 am to 5 pm, September 25th. The conference sessions cover four learning tracks:Blockchain for Business, CLE, Internet of Things, Payments.The two-day conference costs $649.Sessions and SpeakersThe conference kicks off with a keynote address from Change Healthcare CEO Neil de Crescenzo on his organization and its objectives. The networking lunch also features a keynote address. Dr. Harold Paz, Executive Vice President & Chief Medical Officer for Aetna will discuss his company’s Blockchain usage. The day closes with a keynote speech from John Sotos, Chief Medical Officer for Intel Health & Life Sciences.The conference features multiple panel sessions. These include:“A New Infrastructure for Healthcare,” combines presentations and discussion from: John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Bryan Smith, Chief Scientist of PokitDok; Miriam Paramore, President of OptimizeRx. “The Future of Payment Models” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development at Cerner Corporation; John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Francois de Brantes, Vice President & Director of the Altarum Center for Payment Innovation and Aaron Symanski, CTO of Change Healthcare. “Blockchain IoT Use Cases: Scalability & Security” with Siva Kannan, VP of Engineering for Gem; Carlos Elena-Lenz, Director of Intelligent Products & Solutions for Cognizant; Frank Ricotta, CEO for BurstIQ. “Introduction to Blockchain: Defining Use Cases” with Andrew Beal, Senior Manager of EY; Jennifer Georgino, Director of Ecosystem Development for Patientory; Brian Behlendorf, Executive Director for The Hyperledger Project; David Houlding, Director of Healthcare Privacy and Security for Intel Health and Life Sciences. “Blockchain & Revenue Cycle Management” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development for Cerner Corporation; Pearson Talbert, President of HealthcareTTU; Kyle Culver, Solution Architect for Humana; Scott Law, Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy, Zotec Partners; Jim Sohr, Chairman of Powered Health. “Clearing the Way for the Internet of Clinical Things” with Jason Goldwater, Senior Director of the National Quality Forum; David Metcalf, Director of the Mixed Emerging Technology Integration Lab at the UCF Institute for Simulation and Training; Kristen Johns, Counsel for Waller; Susan Ramonat, CEO of Spiritus Partners. “Laying a Foundation for Success: State Initiatives in Blockchain” with John Wagster, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Giles Ward, Executive Director for Hashed Health; Kenneth Bradberry, President of BlockChange. “Blockchain: The Individual & the Employer” with Frank Coliano, Operating Partner with The Riverside Company; Micah Winkelspecht, Founder and CEO of Gem; Peter Fuchs, Corporate Strategy for Mercer.WorkshopsThe first afternoon also offers hands-on learning opportunities. A workshop, “Blockchain Use Case Workshop with Optum,” hosted by Mike Jacobs, a Distinguished Engineer with Optum, introduces participants to Blockchain case studies. A live demonstration session, “Demos: Blockchain in Action,” presents technologies from Hashed Health, IBM, PokitDok, and the State of Illinois.CLE Session HighlightsA CLE registrants session, “Healthcare Regulation Meets Blockchain,” examines how Blockchain affects HIPAA compliance, legislative trends and regulatory issues. Panelists include: Caitlin Moon, COO and CDO for Legal Alignment; Larry Bridgesmith, CEO/Founder of Legal Alignment, Adel Elmissiry, CTO for Utilize Health, Jodi Daniel, Partner at Crowell & Moring.A second CLE registrants session, “The Legal Challenges of Token Offerings,” looks at the legal ramifications of token fundraising including securities laws, border limitations and consumer protections. Panelists include: Les Wilkinson, Chief Development Officer for Hashed Health; Gray Sasser, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Jason Epstein, Partner and Co-leader of Technology and Procurement Group for Nelson Mullins; Alan Cohn, Counselor and Strategic Advisor for Steptoe & Johnson LLP.See the agenda for Distributed: Health
Umbrella Coin – Automating Insurance Payouts with Smart Contracts.The market for alternative coins has been growing at a dizzying rate. Many ICOs (Initial Coin Offerings) now raise tens of millions or even hundreds of millions of dollar equivalent value in their tokens. Healthcare is one area where blockchain technology is seeing major ICO growth.Umbrella Coin has produced a coin called UMC which is built on the Ethereum protocol. It’s goal is to become a major healthcare company based on the block chain technology rather than traditional financial structures.Umbrella Coin can reduce costUmbrella Coin has several revolutionary innovations that no health care company on the market can match. The first innovation is that the claims process is governed by the universe of other Umbrella Coin owners. They vote through the Ethereum protocol on whether any claim should be paid out or not. They are interested in a sound system that is fair and can grow, not necessarily in the most profitable system.This radically changes the traditional model of claims payments. Under the current methodology, health insurance companies have an extremely detailed checklist of approved treatments and pharmaceuticals for each diagnoses. They have a bureaucratic structure with lawyers, claims management professionals and very few doctors to overseas the claims process. The people making the decisions are not doing it in the interest of patients but rather for the bottom line.The second huge innovation is the cost structure. Under the legacy bloated system results in many good claims that are rejected and many wasted costs. Additionally, the health insurance companies spend millions in sales and marketing to acquire new customers. This ultimately needs to be made up by raising premiums for current customers. Overall, prices continue to dramatically rise in this system.Under the Umbrella Coin system, this all changes. Since there is no costly claims process, no bureaucracy, no million dollar marketing campaign and no expensive overhead, claims can be far more generous for less costly. They can dramatically reduce costs and be more efficient.StructureThe overall structure is a little complex but makes the entire system extremely coherent. A new client first takes some of the Umbrella Coin from their wallet and devotes it to a “Float” pool. That allows the client to be covered under the health plan. After a small lock-out period, there is a maturation period under which they are covered by the plan. As time passes and no claims are required, some of the funds may be withdrawn with a small penalty. At the end of a contract period, there is no more penalty at all.If a claim is made during the maturation period, the community decides on the validity of the claim. If it is approved, the Coins are withdrawn from the Float and distributed to the individual. If the claim is rejected, no Coins are disbursed.TeamUmbrella Coin also has the team and background to execute on the vision they have outlined. They have a number of software developers from the largest software and insurance companies in the world. They have decades of experience in software development and education from some of the finest engineering and computer science programs. Additionally, Umbrella Coin has already started to build out its sales and marketing team to promote the use of the product.Blockchain Health Care Review is a leading hub of information about companies, technology and innovations around health care tech using the blockchain. Many people, companies and institutions have already formed tight partnerships through the site. For more information, please contact us.
DNAnexus – Collaborative Bioinformatics Research.DNAnexus is a leading bioinformatics company offering a cloud-based, flexible, genomic data management system. Although not currently blockchain-based, their platform is part of a growing landscape of healthcare IT innovation that is making sweeping changes to the healthcare industry. Healthcare organizations and genomic researchers are using the DNAnexus platform to store and deliver value-added DNA sequence data to clients; to discover new drugs through genomic R&D; and to share and collaborate with other genomic researchers online. Most recently, the bioinformatics company announced the launch of a collaborative platform (MOSAIC) for genomic researchers across the globe to work together toward new breakthroughs in bioinformatics that could in turn lead to new healthcare solutions.The platformThe primary DNAnexus product is a cloud-based genomic data management system with several key component that help researchers in the following areas:Uploading and securely storing their genomic data Scaling their DNA sequencing processes Building, porting, reproducing and testing pipelines Maintaining clinical data compliance (e.g. HIPAA compliance) Sharing and collaborating with other bioinformatics researchers and organizations Controlling genomic data access Integrating with partnersUse casesCompanies and researchers are currently applying the flexible DNAnexus platform to a wide variety of use cases.Value-added DNA sequencing data deliveryThe DNAnexus platforms integrates directly with an organization’s sequencing instruments, and can handle multiple simultaneous upload streams. Once uploaded to the cloud, DNAnexus can then deliver the DNA sequencing data to the organization’s clients as part of a larger, value-added bioinformatics solution that expands the original organization’s data offering.R&D toward drug discoveryBy using the DNAnexus platform, researchers can more easily identify the sources of disease in the human genome and address them.Collaborative bioinformatics researchDNAnexus has designed its platform around APIs, making it flexible enough to handle the needs and requirements of a wide variety of genome centers. The cloud-based platform can also scale as projects grow, and organizations can add hundreds of collaborators.MOSAIC: Collaborative microbiome research spaceOn June 27th, 2017, in conjunction with their partner Janssen Research & Development (including the Jansen Human Microbiome Institute), DNAnexus announced the release of the MOSAIC research collaboration platform. MOSAIC helps genomic researchers to more easily organize, manage and share their data.Organizing and analyzing bioinformatics dataTo help researchers organize and analyze their genomic data, MOSAIC provides collaborative workspaces; “studies and runs” to help with sequencing and metadata; and an advanced search feature that returns data from workspaces, studies, runs, executions and apps.Support for data interactionTo help with data interaction, the MOSAIC platform runs microbiome apps that have already been made publicly available by the greater bioinformatics community and require no installation. MOSAIC also enables researchers to create their own private apps. Once researchers have selected their apps, they can chain them together into a complete workflow. Finally, MOSAIC provides an execution-tracking feature that enables researchers to monitor the performance of their apps and processes at a granular level.Sharing and collaborationTo enhance sharing and collaboration, the MOSAIC platform includes groups, discussions and bioinformatics data sharing. However, to access workspaces, assets and apps, users must accept licensing terms.Company overviewLaunched in 2010, DNAnexus has grown into the worldwide leader in genomics data management. The Mountain View, California-based company offers an advanced, cloud-based bioinformatics platform that enables organizations to more easily handle their genomic data by making the bioinformation management process more secure, accessible, manageable, scalable and collaborative. The global company has operations in North America, South America, Africa, Europe and Asia-Pacific. The DNAnexus team is composed primarily of experts from two fields: cloud computing and computational biology.See also: Blockchain and Healthcare Data ManagementTo learn more about innovative IT companies leading change in the healthcare industry, contact us.
MedCredits and Hippocrates: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using Blockchain.Blockchain technology seeks to connect patients with doctors on a decentralized platform to help reduce healthcare costs associated with office visits and middlemen. Several tech startups are racing to cross the finish line! One such, MedCredits, claims they’re the first blockchain powered platform that connects providers to patients worldwide on a decentralized network. Many in the industry anxiously await the announcement or launch date for token sale, and MedX token price. To receive the blue ribbon that label’s them as the first company to successfully integrate blockchain technology and smart contracts into current healthcare designs would give them a proverbial leg up on the competition.MedCredits: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using BlockchainSimilar to other telemedicine startups, MedCredits desires to improve healthcare access and reduce rising healthcare costs. Developers believe trying to create a decentralized electronic medical record (EMR) is too difficult of a task to tackle all at one time, and rather approach implementation organically, growing the platform overtime by targeting medical specialities and slowly releasing software updates.Instead of dismantling an entire electronic system and re-training workers, MedCredit team members are approaching blockchain-based telemedicine through integrating technology into readily accessible medical specialities, like Dermatology, to serve as a foundation for later application into other fields.Dermatology is one of several specialities transforming the healthcare market by approaching it as a borderless, decentralized network. Diagnoses are largely based upon subjective descriptions and examination of skin, which Dermatologists agree can safely be accomplished with photographs and clear patient descriptions via smartphones.How It WorksMedCredits, built from the OpenBazzar code-based system, is working to seamlessly integrate Hippocrates, a user-friendly app connecting Dermatologists with their patients, on the MedCreditsplatform. OpenBazzar is a decentralized peer-to-peer sharing platform for goods and information. Hippocrates is a user-friendly app on the MedCredits platform, where providers and patients meet to discuss their skin concerns.Global Network ~ Borderless access to Dermatologists! MedCredits‘ goal is to globalize medicine!  Instant Connection ~ Hippocrates is a user-friendly application, prompting patients through each step to submit cases, receive diagnosis and hear treatment recommendations with the touch of a button.  Payment ~ Patients pay using MEDX, or ERC20 tokens, secured on Ethereum blockchain and regulated by self-executing smart contracts to track the automated transactions. Diagnosis ~ After successful transaction, patients receive diagnosis and recommendations from licensed medical professionals without ever having to leave their environment!AdvantagesMedCredits opens up hospital doors globally, providing borderless patient access to physicians, assisting to remove geographical barriers to clinics, and improving health outcomes worldwide. Overtime, MedCredits hopes to extend its reach to other medical specialities, such as Cardiology and Neurology, to interconnect EMR with other departments and hopefully global systems.Allows for physicians to access demographics who have limited mobility or means to attend regular appointments. Records are available through secured access, giving patients the keys for their health! Patients are given access to healthcare professionals for diagnosis, referral or treatment anywhere, at anytime!DisadvantagesResearch reveals that people spend over 90% of their free time on applications, though this doesn’t necessarily mean we should encourage it. Incentivizing patients through leaving star ratings, may impact an insurance company’s decision to provide coverage or include clinics in their network. This has possible ramifications on who is able to receive treatments locally, or be made to rely on smart technologies alone.People as LinksIt’s undeniable that aspects of telemedicine and blockchain technology help to streamline healthcare processes. Studies may show that more people are comfortable interacting through a screen. Admittedly, it’s difficult to untangle persons with technology, as one will often times support the other. Companies like MedCredits make telemedicine possible, and with some more research, can hopefully help us drive our health forward into the future!Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
Doc.ai – blockchain-enabled, AI-powered biology and health platform.A worldwide shortage of health professionalsThe Palo Alto-based, biology and health-focused AI company sees their technology as filling a much-needed gap in the present healthcare system. They point out that the World Health Organization has estimated that we are suffering from a worldwide shortage of seven millions healthcare professionals. Doctors and nurses are overworked, and relieving their burden with millions of additional healthcare professionals will inevitably require extensive, costly training over many years. According to doc.ai, however, AI can help relieve their burden and improve healthcare outcomes immediately.Information gatheringIn a recent article entitled “The Robo-Doctor will See You Now,” PC Magazine reviewed the doc.ai app after the company’s CTO provided a demo of the first stage of the patient’s interactive experience with the AI. The demo began with the AI, through the CTO’s mobile phone, asking the CTO to take a picture of himself with his phone (i.e. a “selfie”) in order for the AI to guess his gender, age, weight, height and BMI, all from his headshot. According to PC Magazine, other than the app’s guess of the CTO’s age, which was off by only a “couple years,” its analysis “was spot on.”In the next stage, the “robo-doctor” asks the patient to take a picture of their medicine cabinet and blood results. Later, the AI guides the patient through the process of importing subsets of their medical records (including “a full sequence genome” if the patient has one available) from various sources. As the patient’s personalized health data collection grows from all of their medical sources, the AI soon learns more about their health profile than any individual medical source could know. According to doc.ai, this puts their app in a unique position to provide highly informed medical insights.The AI-powered medical conversationOnce the aggregation of medical data is complete, the highly personalized, blockchain-enabled AI platform is able to respond to patients’ questions about their health 24/7 through the mobile app. According to the doc.ai team, the AI-supported dialogue is not merely a user-friendly interface for retrieving data already present in one’s medical record. Rather, it is a generator of new information and insight. In the company’s press release, doc.ai provides a number of examples of complex, personalized questions that the company claims their AI can handle, such as “What should be my optimal Ferritin value based on my iron storage deficiency?”The first “beta customer”Doc.ai is not only designing their AI to interact with patients, but health professionals. The company is currently testing their first module, Robo-Hematology, with Deloitte Life Sciences and Healthcare, their “first beta customer.” Co-founder and CEO of doc.ai, Walter De Brouwer envisions health professionals and institutions having a direct dialogue with lab tests themselves “by leveraging advanced artificial intelligence, medical data forensics, and the decentralized blockchain.”In addition to Robo-Hematology, within the next twelve months doc.ai plans to release two additional blockchain-enabled, AI-powered natural language dialog modules for use by leading medical organizations addressing specific areas of healthcare and life sciences: Robo-Anatomic and Robo-Genomics.Neuron: the doc.ai blockchain tokenIn order to reward usage and run their blockchain-enabled AI technology, doc.ai is following the Ethereum token standard to generate their tokens, which they are calling “Neurons” (NRNs). Doc.ai is creating a marketplace for SAFTs (Simple Agreements for Future Tokens) on September 7th, followed by a token sale on September 28th. Upon launch, SAFTs will convert to NRNs. To tie the size of their token pool to their subject matter, doc.ai plans to make the total number of NRNs 86 billion, roughly equal to the human brain’s total neuron count.Contact us to learn more. Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with leading DLT research in an effort to bring the most current information to members of the community.
iSolve – Innovation for the Drug Supply Chain.Blockchain technology began its innovative life in the cryptocurrency market segment. It moved quickly to disrupt other market segments  — representing many processes — who find it relevant to their security needs. And what is in greater need of chain of custody security than the drug supply chain? iSolve shows an innovative way forward for the drug supply chain using blockchain technology.End-to-end Drug Supply Chain Solution Using BlockchainInformation about the drug supply chain posts securely to the blockchain. Blockchain technology provides a way to trace drug movement from one trusted drug supply chain partner to another. The use of blockchain technology in the drug supply chain:makes auditing easier and more accurate; makes the drug supply chain transparent for Biopharma companies who want to see the distribution patterns of their medical products; applies in the $800 billion global pharma market; integrates existing systems and processes; and prevents counterfeit medications from entering the supply chain.Advanced Digital Ledger Technology (ADLT)iSolve developed ADLT to provide security in the drug supply chain. It accomplishes this by preventing counterfeit drugs from entering the supply but beyond that it provides:prompt secure communications between drug supply chain partners,  improved inventory control and management, improved medication recall procedures and processes, and global regulatory compliance.ADLT works toward structural soundness of the drug supply chain with respect to the needs of Pharma, vendors in the supply chain — and, of course, patients.BlockRXThis is iSolve’s platform (combining Blockchain technology and iSolve’s ADLT), designed to improve patient outcomes by integrating the work of life science researchers, BioPharma companies, medical device makers, medical equipment retailers, and health care providers. The BlockRX Ecosystem for BioPharma creates new revenue streams and manages costs. It changes the way BioPharma companies, health care providers and patients interact with each other. BlockRx also provides secure access to data.The BlockRX digital tokens that support life sciences go on sale September 21st.The Smart MarketplaceBioPharma Tech Transfer Offices and service providers can enter The Smart Marketplace to take advantage of the Smart IP, Smart Services, and Smart Investment components. They can search intellectual property (IP) postings from around the world to help them build their own supply channels or locate new technologies that help them develop their drug enterprises.BioPharma companies can connect with investors that are a good match for them at their particular stage of development.Tech Transfer Offices, service providers and investors who take advantage of the Smart Marketplace gain exposure to more clients, identify needs that exist in the marketplace and track the companies that need the type of expertise and special services that they can provide.Blockchain Project Portfolio Management (BPPM)BPPM tracks tasks/deliverables, organizes, and schedules projects that BioPharma companies enter into the Blockchain for Smart IP, Smart Investment, and Smart Services. BPPM helps identify and manage projects without burdening the BioPharma companies with more administrative tasks.BPPM automatically posts the updated plan via an email response system as work completes.Investors can see at what stage the BioPharma company project reached at any given point in time. Investors can also see the milestones completed as required for initial or additional funding stages.All activities of Tech Transfer Offices, Service Providers, Investors and BioPharma companies post to the Blockchain in a portfolio. iSolve analyses and posts metrics about the activities which helps organizations when they search for possible partners.To learn more about iSolve’s solutions to fundamentally change drug development by interconnecting systems that do not communicate well with each other and to establish data provenance, read the blockrx.com white paper.
Dentacoin is Using Blockchain to Shift the Focus of Dentistry from Treatment to Prevention.The rapid development of blockchain technology is poised to disrupt just about every corner modern healthcare. Predictive health and PHI security use cases are utilizing distributed ledger technology to store vital patient information in a secure, traceable and transferable ways. However, innovators and entrepreneurs alike are also starting to test applications in specific provider specialties. One such area is dental care, lead by the visionary DentaCoin team.Dentistry Cryptocurrency and BlockchainA visit to the dentist can be a hit or miss experience depending on the effort put into personal care. From a young age, people tend to start visiting the dentist at regular intervals to stay on top of issues that would otherwise compound in severity rather quickly if left untreated or unattended. Although dental diagnostic technology and everyday tools of the trade have evolved significantly, advancements in informatics infrastructure on the backend and progress to stem trends such as gum disease haven’t had as much luck in advancing. Cryptocurrency in particular is a notable, low hanging fruit type opportunity for blockchain to get a foothold in the dentistry without really rewriting its IT infrastructure by way of enabling innovative payment methods. Still, dentistry is one of the lowest risk areas of health care since it is rarely a life threatening situation, albeit commonplace procedures that are more severe often require surgical precision, hence the requirement of medical school for dentists. The other side of the argument is that teeth can be kept healthy and strong with basic, habitual preventative care. This is a far cry from the amount of work it takes for the rest of the human body to stay healthy and happy. How does blockchain fit into all this? It’s an excellent incentivization mechanism that can be used to increase proper hygiene and thus prevent common, yet destructive chronic conditions from wreaking havoc.Enter DentaCoin. The outfit has created a trusted blockchain platform that will support a community network for dentists and patients alike, which is scheduled to launch in the fall of 2017. This community allows for constant feedback, education and a strong community between dentists and patients. The platform with is designed to facilitate with a low barrier for entry an information and improve oral care. It’s architected as a “decentralized, highly secure database of all patient health records” where “health data will be highly protected, updatable and accessible exclusively by patients or by dentists, upon a given permission”.Additionally, DentaCoin has created a payment system with its new coin DCN token, which integrates cryptocurrency into the dentistry patient care model for the first time. Using DCN, patients can pay dentists directly for care, pay for medical insurance, pay for preventative care and purchase oral care products. Dentists benefit from participation immensely as well. Integrating with DCN will allow dentists and their practices to purchase standard industry equipment at a lower than average cost through the Dentacoin Trading platform.DentaCoin also is positioned to democratize the dentistry industry by providing patient mediated data functionality for patients to take control of who sees their records as well as the opportunity to be rewarded with DCN if they allow their medical data (once scrubbed of identity) to contribute to the trend analysis tools offered to participating dentists. This type of secure, immutable data collectively overtime evolves into a highly targeted and intuitive population health asset, which in turn cuts down on diagnostics.Even with all of these benefits, some dentists and patients might wonder why to make the switch to a new, untested system. DentaCoin provides an innovative and unexpectedly lucrative answer to this question. The company will provide a profit sharing opportunity to all of the holders of the DCN coin. In any financial year, the DentaCoin Foundation will use 50% of profits gained and invest them back into the community. That will increase the price of the coin and help any current holders of the currency. It ensures that value will rise over time as long as more people enter the network.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
Distributed Health Sept. 2017: Using Blockchain Tech to Lasso Healthcare.Last October at Distributed: Health, Hashed Healthcare announced their partnership with Martin Ventures to steer the healthcare industry into the blockchain age. This September, CEO John Bass and Chairman Charlie Martin will share with us details about their developing relationship. Expect to see some other friendly faces and meet new ones as world leaders gather to re-imagine today’s healthcare marketplace through implementing transformation technology into current infrastructure. Hosting a variety of speakers from Harvard Medical School and the CDC, to Aetna, to Intel Health and Life Sciences who will review opportunities and obstacles facing blockchain technology in institutional practices. Some leaders believe one benefit of this technology is to streamline communication between providers and patients. Crypto-mining malware isn’t new to cryptocurrencies and raises question’s concerning “crypto-security” and “immutability” that this technology claims to offer. Recently Ethereum (a popular blockchain platform) experienced another cyber-attack, though this time during the ICO phase. This begs the question: how secure is a programmed algorithmic self-aware system, if such software has already experienced two cryptocurrency heists? Hopefully this year speakers will discuss new coding developments to improve security measures and talk about how such a transparent system will meet HIPPA regulations, which were left hovering above the clouds last October. Perhaps recent events will light a new path, providing insights that may help to prevent future crypto-hacks.Schermerhorn Symphony Center September 25th-26th, 2017:Brought to you by Hashed Health & BTC Media!  Download The Event App Bizzabo!  You can PAY via Bitcoin!Healthcare Ecosystem a New MarketplaceSinclair Lewis’s literature wasn’t far off from envisioning the impact business and advertising would have on our culture as communication platforms evolved. Programmed to understand neuro-linguistics and graph human behavioral patterns, deep-chain self-aware software systems predict patient health habits to directly target marketing of products and services. Intelligent machines coupled with blockchain technology transform today’s traditional market into a virtual ecosystem. Smart devices connected to a blockchain cloud will digitally expand hospital arms into patient homes. The Internet of Things or inter-networking of smart devices, implemented with blockchain technology and smart contracts theoretically provides simultaneous immutable tracking of multiple data sources, like medical records and billing, in one de-centralized database. Imagine the limitless opportunities transformative technology will have on managing humanity’s health and wellness!Building Virtual ClinicsDigital connectivity provides an instant continual flow of information, leading to improved communication and care between providers and patients. An electronic health database and remote monitoring is especially useful for patients receiving cardiac or post-stroke care, as well as glucose management. Physicians: imagine the immediate impact and long-term effect of using a glucometer at home, with the added benefit of your patient uploading and sending the results to you daily. This will help Internists and Geriatric Specialists closely monitor glucose levels in their endocrine fragile patients. Peering through the screen, implementing a blockchain cloud system has potential to improve patient care while impacting the industry’s bottom-line, upstream and downstream.A few appealing characteristics:Blockchain Systems are attractive to employers and third-party payers alike! Software analytics predict patient health habits while positively impacting results! It’s more cost-effective to keep sick patients healthier and out of the hospital! Invest in the well-being of your community and see the value mirrored in the health of the population your institution treats! Intelligent machines offer solutions to long-term care by improving a patient’s access to their physician and open flow of communication! Incorporation of technological tactics opens the door to appropriating additional resources!This Year’s Featured Speakers:David Houlding~ Director of Healthcare Privacy & Security, Intel Health and Life Sciences  Lori Melichar~ Director, Pioneer Portfolio, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation  Jim Nasr ~ Chief Software Architect, CDC  Harold Paz ~ Executive VP & CMO, Aetna  Brian Behlendorf ~ Executive Director, The Hyperledger Project  Francois de Brantes ~ VP & Director, Altarum Center for Payment Information  John Bass ~ CEO, Hashed Health  John Sotos ~ CMO, Intel Industry Sales Group  Mike Jacobs ~ Engineer, OptumHurdlesAs of yet, cryptocurrencies have no sovereign regulation. Are crypto-coins just another commodity? In other words, what are they? Another red flag: blockchain technology risks detaching the human experience from medicine. A person’s real world identity is lost, though not a new problem in medicine, this technology may increase it. Too often are phrases heard like, “The kidney in 718 needs dialysis by tonight!” or “Are the sugars in room 1012 better controlled now?” Imagine how virtual examinations could intensify these kinds of interactions. Suddenly, the kidney in room 718 is an indiscriminate character behind a screen. Undeniably, connecting smart devices and medicine through the blockchain cloud offers solutions to redirect healthcare, though there are still bugs that need treated. This September, Distributed: Health speaker’s have an opportunity to provide us answers to last years question’s and address lingering security concerns!For agenda and registration link, visit the DISTRIBUTED: HEALTH 2017 event page.
BurstIQ – Blockchain Platform for Securing, Analyzing and Monetizing all of your PHI.With the integration of blockchain technology into healthcare well underway, B2C blockchain based startups are focusing intently on developing tools that facilitate ownership and provenance of personal health information (PHI). In this space, prevention is the name of the game, and there is no better way to prevent illness than precisely knowing what makes you, well, you.Colorado based BurstIQ “has solved two fundamental challenges that have, until now, prevented blockchain from being utilized in the healthcare space: support for large volumes of data and ensuring security of the underlying data.” The ecosystem includes an intuitive and easy to understand consumer facing product called Lifegraph, where a participant can consolidate all PHI and share what you want with who you want all the while delivering personalized wellness plans. What makes BurstIQ stand out is their marketplace, where you as an individual can license, sell, loan or even donate your PHI to established research networks on the other end. This kind of dedication to active matchmaking is a key incentive for consumer participation.Monetize Health Data on the BurstIQ MarketplaceBurstIQ is personalizing the next generation of healthcare by converging multiple technological sources of your health information into one singular place: The Health Singularity. BurstIQ is the marketplace and your data is the currency. How does tech like this presumably work?BurstIQ Goals:Improve Patient Satisfaction Improve Quality of Care & Outcomes Increase Market Shares Reduce Excessive Costs Build Brands That Shake Hands Target Research to Save on Costs & TimeThe BurstIQ marketplace is where individuals and businesses or research institutes can freely collaborate, reaching agreements together with the assistance from artificial intelligence. Engagements in the marketplace are supported by BurtIQ’s Healthwallet, which powers PHI data governance, compliance, security and permission rules. Other platform services include BurstChain, which is the backbone for rights management functionalities as well as managing consent contracts to permit access to patient-sensitive information, and LifeGraph. LifeGraph is able to cross-examine and manage information from multiple sources to create a road map of your health-data throughout a lifespan.Elements of the New Health Ecosystem:A.I. systems provide more precise insights about your health habits, and which ones are positively (and negatively) impacting long-term care results. Use remote patient monitoring and targeted testing, as well as immediate access to Physicians through telehealth consults. It’s your Virtual Clinic! Consumer focused health plans act to tailor wellness needs based upon home tests made available to participants Sensitive patient information is securely stored in personalized digital HealthWallets. Through the HealthWallet, your health metrics as defined by your LifeGraph determines the care you receive. For example: Primary Care Physicians can write and approve your prescription in exchange for BiQ tokens.BurstIQ is a beacon for blockchain HIT innovation that not only supports owning your PHI, but also having the tools to learn from it, which can be tremendously helpful when deciding what you want to do with it.Unquestionably, using blockchain technology to help gather and store patient data in one place improves treatment accuracy and redundant administrative costs. What remains to be seen from B2C blockchain HIT startups is the network effect of having the security, collaboration and incentive motivation to share PHI. In practice, it can help improve the accuracy and cost of clinical research, which could trickle down to affecting drug prices. The first litmus test though for this innovation fork in healthcare’s timeline is to what degree does all this technology will make any given citizen more accountable and engaged with their data.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
Encrypgen: The Gene-Chain Project.Security Issues Genomic DataOver the last few years, the scientific world saw an exponential growth in the type and volume of available genomic data. Genomic data refer to information with respect to an organism’s complete set of genes, or what we call genomic DNA. Technology kept up with the capture, processing, storage, and analysis of this critical information but solutions to the security and privacy of genomic databases lag far behind.Encrypgen’s Gene-Chain revolutionizes the genomic industryBy their very nature, genome sequencing contains the most sensitive data about individuals. DNA contains information on ethnic background, the propensity to develop certain medical conditions, even life expectancy and personality traits — all of which a person may want to keep confidential and out of the hands of cyber criminals.Gene-Chain stores genomic data from individual donors and researchers, which can then be used for metadata searched . This storage platform makes it easier to browse through the material and securely share scientific data. Universities and other research centers — and even corporations — buy the right to store data on Gene-Chain. Once licensed, these scientific research centers and corporations can request to see stored data other than their own. The Gene-Chain processes these data requests by ensuring the requests comply with privacy and consent laws which, in turn, makes scientific collaboration and ethics procedures easier. Gene-Chain donors can see a complete historical record of all “withdrawals” of the data they upload to the platform. In addition, donors can grant specific scientists and research projects access to their data by giving them special keys that provide secure access for a specific time period, after which they expire.What is so special about Gene-Chain?Based on blockchain technology, Encrypgen’s Gene-Chain provides a trackable and unhackable method that enables transactions involving genomic information over secure networks. People who deposit, use, or mine genomic data receive Gene-Chain coins, a valuable and exchangeable cryptocurrency. In practical terms, this means that donors can make money from those who mine their data.Encrypgen is in the midst of its first sale of 80 million Gene-Chain coins which it expects to conclude sometime in July 2017. At of this date, the company sold 55% of the Gene-Chain offering. The company will distribute wallets at the end of the current sale. In August, 2017, the DNA tokens will list on crypto-exchanges.Who is Encrypgen?Co-founder David Koepsell, JD/PHD, brings his background in law, ethics, and software, to his position as Encrypgen CEO. He leads Encrypgen’s mission to develop systems that will improve the usefulness and privacy of genetic databases and will protect database donors.The Co-founder of Encrypgen is Vanessa Gonzalez Covarrubis, PHD. She is the genomic science advisor for the team and brings more than a decade of genetic science experience to her role. She also writes extensively on genetic science for various publications. As genomic science advisor, Ms. Covarrubis researches pharmacogenomics which is the science behind the emerging field of personal medical genomics.Partners and MembersEncrypgen counts Curlew Research as an organizational partner which supports Encrypgen (and other technology partners) with life science and health innovative projects.Encrypgen is an organizational member of the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health. The company also actively seeks to create partnerships with other entities who share its interest in the security, privacy, and collaboration of genomic data for scientific and health purposes.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
Female Blockchain Entrepreneurship in Healthcare.Women Entrepreneurs Focused on Solving Healthcare with BlockchainBlockchain is a technology that is open to all. It does not discriminate based on age or gender and is built around mathematical concepts and technology. It is behind the rise of crypto-currency tokens, which are the lifeblood of monetizing blockchain innovation. The industry young, and many new companies and founders with great ideas are entering and making a large impact. For that reason, many female founders are having a big impact on the blockchain industry by founding new companies and driving new ventures.Kat Kuzmeskas – CEO, SimplyVital HealthSimplyVital Health is a company that has a large impact on the budding blockchain healthcare sector. It is focused on data portability, tracking and analysis of healthcare data. It is already making a huge impact that is easy to use and that naturally integrates with legacy systems.Kat Kuzmeskas is one of the founders of SimplyVital Health. This impressive founder has a deep background in the health industry including working at the Yale New Haven Health System and earning a Masters in Public Health. Kuzmeskas understood the issues that small health providers face and how data portability could help them save time, costs and improve patient care. She then teamed up with co-founder and CTO Lucas Hendren to create the SimplyVital Health Solution.SimplyVital Health is a giant leap forward on the ability of companies, institutions and healthcare providers to track and manage patient information with 100% security. Of course, patient data must be kept private and secure according to HIPAA regulations. Fortunately, the blockchain ledger allows for a mathematical solution that prevents fraud and allows all exchanges of information to be pre-verified.The solution tracks each step that patients go through, from the symptoms they have to the time they enter their first provider to all of the care, procedures and medications they receive. This is important for several reasons. First of all, it records the interventions in a clear and easy to use system that should indicate to other medical providers what has worked and what is not working.  That helps later diagnoses.Secondly, it ensures that the interventions were done according to a medically determined standard of care. That means that insurance companies will have no way to deny claims of unnecessary procedures or excessive medications. Providers love this because it means they get paid faster and have full verification in case of any disputes.Thirdly, it creates a way for the government or the hospital to do a quick audit of a patient or patient’s records to see that all of the proper compliance standards are being followed. Audits are much quicker and less expensive. That is better for the government and the institution itself. Plus any changes in procedure may be easily programmed into the legacy system to guide providers in the future.SimplyVital Health was also built to integrate painlessly with legacy IT systems. That means providers will not need a long training period or expensive implementation costs. As SimplyVital Health continues to add more features and functions, more and more institutions are adopting the technology.Elaine Comeau- CEO PointNurseAnother company to look out for in the female led healthcare blockchain startup community is PointNurse. It is run Elaine Comeau who herself is a registered nurse. The firm helps home nurses to log their care, hours and interventions on the blockchain. This provides tremendous convenience and security. In addition to advocating for “out-of-hospital blockchains”, PointNurse envisions a “decentralized autonomous nursing organization” or “DANO,” that will make full of use of blockchain to disrupt and transform the multi-billion dollar nurse-staffing industry. This seed stage start-up is a player to watch in the future.Chrissa McFarlane- CEO, PatientoryLastly, a discussion in women driven blockchain entrepreneurship can not be complete without mentioning the recent, and ongoing success, of Chrissa McFarlane, CEO of Patientory. With a recent issuance of their ICO, Patientory secured $7.2 million in funding by making their token (PTOY) available to the public for purchase. The platform is designed to transfer tokens—PTOY—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patient.Where to buy PTOYIf you missed the Patientory ICO, not to worry. You can still purchase tokens on exchanges such as Liqui.The Patientory platform makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology and decentralizes data so that it distributed and HIPAA compliant. Patientory also has deployed a mobile app enables users to store, view and track their healthcare data using HIPAA-compliant blockchain technology.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
IEEE Pharma Supply Blockchain Forum: Improving the Pharmacy Supply Chain.When it comes to Blockchain, the big question today is how to put it to work for you. We keep our eyes peeled each year for events that will interest you in this area — and we believe this year’s Pharma Supply Block Chain Forum fits the bill. So read on for highlights from this Event review – Pharma Conference.The Pharma Supply Block Chain ForumThis event was held on June 6, 2017 at the Johns Hopkins University Montgomery County Campus in Rockville, Maryland. It was an information packed, one-day, educational program about Blockchain technology and its uses with respect to the Pharma supply chain. This was not just a one-off event. It was the first in a series of events whose goal is to promote Blockchain technology in the pharmaceutical sector.Who were the speakers?This forum was impressive for the breadth and depth of experience of its presenters. The forum included regulators, representatives from the academic world as well as industry and technology experts. Speakers included representatives from the following companies:Amgen Blockchain Healthcare Review Chain Business Insights Health Linkages IBM Life Sciences Peer Ledger PharmTech SafeBio Pharma Steptoe & Johnson, LLP IEEE Spectrum T-Systems AmericaThe Pharma Supply Block Chain Forum spread wide its audience netFrom Vice Presidents, senior directors and managers, to benefit managers and hospital staff, as well as government regulators, students and researchers  — the content added value to all attendees. The industries most affected were those in the manufacturing end of the pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences as well as wholesalers, hospitals, and technology vendors.What topics did the Forum cover? Forum presenters expressed their views on the following:Improving the drug supply chain from manufacturers to patient, including the opportunities for collaboration from IOT, AI, Blockchain, DLT’s just to name a few Increasing revenue from data in the Blockchain Digital identity concerns in the drug supply chain Working better with trusted partners Understanding what the regulators have to say about the drug supply chain Smart contracts Management and security of data Integrity of the supply chainThe keynote address, for example, asked the question whether Blockchain is the right fit for Pharma’s supply chain. Other speaker topics ranged from a food safety case study to the smart way to do smart contracts. The Digital Identity issue inherent in using Blockchain for Pharma included tips on using a double layer framework to secure both the product supply chain and with respect to patient information.Another presentation reviewed the contenders for the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (DSCSA) track and trace program, a program intended to help the pharmaceutical industry comply with the Act. DSCSA imposed new requirements on manufacturers, repackagers, drug dispensers, pharmaceutical wholesalers, and their trading partners. The new rules with respect to standards of practice and product tracing phase in over the next six years which made this a particularly appropriate topic for this Blockchain Forum.IEEE areas of pharmacy and supply chain interestSupply chain operations and IT. With respect to supply operations, the Forum aimed at those with an interest in:Distribution Management Partnership development Quality Control Compliance Finance SecurityOn the IT side, the Forum impacted those whose work touches:Big Data Data governance Cloud management Data architecture in Enterprise corporations Information security Data engineering Tech innovationsPerhaps the most impressive thing about this list is that it is not exhaustive. And, as this was only the first in a series of forum events, expectations for the entire series run high.To talk more about this topic, or anything else, please contact us. We look forward to answering all your questions about Blockchain and its impact on the Pharma supply chain.
MedRec: Innovating Blockchain for Healthcare Data Management.MIT Media Lab’s MedRec is a blockchain-based healthcare data management solutionTheir central focus is on the Electronic Medical Record (EMR). MedRec aims to give patients access to, and control over, their EMR while facilitating and motivating medical research.The patient interfaceMedRec provides a user-friendly interface for patients to access their EMR. The interface includes notifications of any updates to the EMR. MedRec also enables users to decide “when, and with whom, they share their data.” Patients will have the power to use the MedRec interface to grant a guardian, family member, new doctor or any other participant the rights to view their data. Furthermore, patients may share information regarding a specific subset of their EMR (such as data relating to a specific health condition) while keeping the rest of their EMR private. MedRec gives patients a high level of granular control over their data, and can even isolate individual fields for independent sharing or restricting.MedRec as a “Database Gatekeeper”MedRec does not store any actual medical records on their blockchain network. Rather, MedRec stores “aggregate data pointers” that only reference the medical records, which remain in their existing databases. These “pointers,” or references to the actual medical data, are at the heart of MedRec’s approach and are aggregated into patient-provider relationship units. As viewership permissions for the actual medical data change, these pointers and relationships get updated, allowing or restricting access to the medical data accordingly. The entire process operates through their “Database Gatekeeper layer.” MedRec maintains that its blockchain model, centered around their “Database Gatekeeper layer,” alleviates many common concerns that would otherwise arise without it. Perhaps most importantly, it allows providers to keep their existing databases and continue to use them as they do now. This not only makes participation in the MedRec network all the easier and affordable for providers, but may facilitate HIPAA compliance.Motivating medical researchThe MedRec team maintains that the medical research that is essential for helping researchers and providers find new cures and treatments is greatly hampered by the present lack of access to sufficient medical data. Although some clinical trial and other data does “trickle through,” there is a pressing need for more data that is currently inaccessible.MedRec hopes to provide a solution to this problem by introducing a “data economy.” In return for providing the “computational resources” that support the MedRec blockchain network, medical researchers and other participants will receive “census level, anonymized metadata” that is useful, presumably, for their research. Of course, patients and providers (“the data producers”) will have a say in how much of this metadata they release to the researchers and other participants (“the data consumers.”)The future of a blockchain EMRMedRec plans to perform ongoing usability and feasibility testing of their system with both patients and providers. This process will involve partnering with local healthcare providers to test the efficiency of their prototype. Once ready, they intend to release their framework as open source software. However, they are firmly committed to the principle that to use the system is not to own the data.Unlike most, if not all, of the other nascent blockchain healthcare projects, MedRec is not a company. Nonetheless, their ambitions are similar to a host of startup companies in this emerging space. In terms of their prospects for success, their affiliation with MIT certainly plays in their favor both in terms of instilling trust in participants and in terms of providing access to the university’s technical and human resources. Furthermore, their model’s Database Gatekeeper layer has a number of advantages, noted above, that might make them especially attractive to providers with cost, integration and regulatory concerns. It is perhaps more difficult to predict how providers and patients will respond to their model’s “data economy” approach, although it does appear to provide a genuine incentive to medical researchers.Contact us for more information on blockchain healthcare startups.
PointNurse: blockchain enabled telemedicine.Founded in 2014, PointNurse is a telemedicine provider and “global virtual care community.” PointNurse employs blockchain technology to give “care credits” to nurses, doctors and other participating healthcare professionals toward profit sharing and potential equity in the company, based on activity and performance.PointNurse: blockchain enabled telemedicine using “care credits”The uniqueness of the PointNurse model lies in the company’s “member-owner program.” The top-performing, most proactive nurses, doctors and other healthcare providers in the PointNurse community will not only earn income from their “virtual visits” with patients, but will have the opportunity to participate in profit-sharing while accumulating credits toward equity in the company. These “care credits” are blockchain-based tokens that providers earn for several “markers” of participation, including:Hours spent on-call New PointNurse members recruited Quality of care markersAt the end of the year, PointNurse calculates the total credits for each of its members, which in turn determines their “pro-rata share” of the “community’s profits” for the year. At the same time, PointNurse keeps track of each member’s cumulative lifetime care credits. In the event of a “merger, sale, or IPO,” each member can then redeem their credits for any “pro-rata equity gains” that result.PointNurse believes that their member-owner program, together with its unique care credits, distinguishes them from conventional, “transactional” telemedicine providers.The PointNurse mobile appAt the center of the PointNurse offering is the PointNurse app, found at the Apple app store. PointNurse describes the consumer-facing aspect of their app as a convenient way to have a “virtual visit” with a medical professional “from home, work or on the road,” at a cost of one dollar per minute. Furthermore, patients can use the PointNurse site to find nurse practitioners and medical doctors, organized by time zone and state.The company describes the counterpart provider-facing aspect of their app as a free platform for verified, licensed providers who wish to register to receive “video requests” (whether scheduled or “on-demand”) from new and existing patients. In order to participate, all that a healthcare professional needs is a computer with a working camera, connected to the Internet. And there are no fixed hours. PointNurse aims for “flexibility and freedom,” encouraging participants to work from home on their own schedules.Connection to HealthCombixIn September of 2016, Alex Danzberger, Senior VP at Unitek, joined the PointNurse advisory board. In addition, he made an investment not only in PointNurse, but HealthCombix, which PointNurse “spun off” at that time. HealthCombix builds distributed, blockchain-based apps that bring together systems “at the nexus of healthcare, pharma and insurance.” In particular, HealthCombix aims to encourage patient support groups by providing patients’ friends and family with “rewards for helping patients reach health goals.” This aspect of their model is similar to PointNurse’s care-credit approach, but aimed primarily at caregivers rather than providers. However, under the HealthCombix model, the patients receive rewards for reaching their goals as well. And rather than redeeming rewards for a share of company profits or equity, patients and caregivers alike can redeem them at participating “food, housing and community outlets.”Advocates for blockchain in healthcareAside from their significance as a standalone startup, the PointNurse team has advocated strongly for bringing blockchain into the healthcare industry in general and the nursing profession in particular. For example, a 2016 post on the PointNurse blog envisions a “decentralized autonomous nursing organization” or “DANO,” that will make full of use of blockchain to disrupt and transform the multi-billion dollar nurse-staffing industry. They have also advocated for “out-of-hospital blockchains.”Funding and futurePointNurse has yet to emerge from the seed-funding stage, or at least has not yet announced an institutional round of funding. Therefore, they may not have the resources to move toward their goals at the same speed as more high-profile startups in the blockchain healthcare space such as Gem Health and DokChain, both of which have institutionally-backed parent companies (Gem and Pokitdok, respectively). Nonetheless, PointNurse continues to show signs of life as they evolve toward their goals at their own pace. On April 20th, 2017, PointNurse announced that Elaine Comeau, a former executive at Philips Healthcare with a “distinguished career working in telehealth” would become the company’s new CEO. Ms. Comeau’s vision for the company continues to embrace blockchain.Join our community to learn more about promising blockchain startups in the healthcare space.
DokChain by PokitDok – Blockchain for Healthcare.PokitDok, a healthcare software platform provider, has recently introduced a new offering: DokChain, “blockchain for healthcare.” PokitDok envisions DokChain helping usher in a new era of value-based care handled (in the background) primarily by artificial intelligence (AI), rather than Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). This new breed of AI, in the form of “smart contracts,” will reside on DokChain, the company’s secure blockchain-based network. PokitDok’s expanding set of APIs will, in turn, connect all healthcare participants to the AI-rich DokChain and to each other. An impressive initial group of leading technology and healthcare partners, collectively the “DokChain Health Alliance,” has already signed on to lead the effort. And parent PokitDok’s $5M round of funding in March will certainly help fuel DokChain’s development for the remainder of 2017.The vision of DokChainDokChain made its formal debut on September 27th, 2016 at the Health 2.0 conference in Santa Clara, California. According to PokitDok Co-founder and CEO Lisa Maki, the introduction of blockchain in general (and DokChain in particular) into the healthcare system is part of the shift to value-based care. Maki argues that as the shift progresses, it’s becoming increasing clear that EMRs are no longer the sole repository of healthcare data. As a result, the push toward shared EMRs is at least partly misguided. After all, the EMR cannot capture the complete set of important events contributing to the patient’s overall “episode of care.” However, “smart contracts” can. These digital contracts, also known as “self-executing contracts” or “blockchain contracts” are a new breed of artificial intelligence (AI). Roughly speaking, smart contracts serve as ultra-efficient legal agents that can create, store and enforce contracts supporting the exchange of various forms of value (e.g. property, stock, money, etc.) on the blockchain in real-time. Accordingly, smart contracts, rather than the EMR, according to Maki, will emerge as the central medium for handling healthcare data in the future.The role of DokChainCEO Maki envisions DokChain connecting all endpoints (participants and stakeholders) in the healthcare ecosystem into a single secure blockchain network. These endpoints will not only include EMRs, but devices such as heart monitors. After pulling in data from all the endpoints participating in a given “episode of care,” DokChain records it, while handling permissions through “access grants” that DokChain “maintains and verifies.” The result is a distributed network of secure, richly organized healthcare data for stakeholders to track and share.The role of PokitDokAccording to Maki, although DokChain will serve as the blockchain network itself, PokitDok will provide the APIs connecting all of the following endpoints to the network and its “smart contract services”:Thirty party applications (more than 4,000). Insurance companies (more than 500). “[A]ll registered healthcare providers.”Use case: Insurance benefit checkOn stage at the Health 2.0 conference, Maki walked the audience through four steps in a typical use case—running a check to determine if one’s health insurance will cover a knee examination:Maki emphasizes that the benefits data itself is not stored on the DokChain, but rather in the secure PokitDok Platform. What is stored on DokChain are “access grants” to the benefits data, along with a complete record of the transaction that participants can access and share, subject to their permissions.PokitDok PartnersDokChain has announced an impressive list of initial partners:Microsoft GE Healthcare Adventist Healthcare The Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health SystemThis group, along with others, are joining forces in the DokChain Health Alliance (initially called “the Blockchain Alliance,” but later renamed) which Maki boldly claims will “ultimately define the future of blockchain in our industry.”FundingIn March, 2017, GIS Strategic Ventures (of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America) announced an investment of $5M in PokitDok. The company plans to use the funds not only to further develop DokChain, but to expand their existing API service.The investment round brings PokitDok’s total fundraising to date to $48M.Overall, DokChain is off to a strong start. It has set a clear strategic goal for itself of becoming the AI-run blockchain network for the era of value-based care; it has established a path to integration with the wealth of APIs that its parent company continues to expand; it has landed an impressive set of initial partners with the DokChain Health Alliance; and it has attracted ample funding, alongside parent PokitDok, with March’s $5M round. Although there are other ambitious contenders, such as Gem Health, vying to become “the blockchain of healthcare,” DokChain has come out of the gate with a lot of promise.Follow PokitDoc:Developer Blog: fullmetalhealth.comContact us for more on blockchain healthcare startups.
Patientory – Blockchain, A.I. and Population Health Management.Blockchain Solutions for Population Health ManagementPatientory is a healthcare start-up aiming to transform the way patients keep track of their health information by empowering them to manage their own health care. Although based in Atlanta, Patientory grew out of a collaboration between Boulder, Colorado’s Boomtown Health-Tech Accelerator and Colorado Permanente Medical Group (of Kaiser Permanente). They are also in partnership with Startup Health.Patientory has placed their focus on four inter areas: a mobile app, the Electronic Health Record, the health sector’s first crypto-token, and Patientory’s blockchain platform.The Patientory mobile appSimply called “Patientory,” the Patientory mobile app enables users to store, view and track their health care data using HIPPA-complaint blockchain technology. Patientory’s advanced patient profile gives users instant access to their:Medical history Doctor visits Medications Immunizations Health insuranceOn the Patientory blog, the team argues that the digitization of health care information not only has obvious advantages, such as instant access to one’s health data, but less immediately noticeable advantages as well. These include a reduction in lost data (e.g. from indecipherable handwriting); enhanced patient-doctor communication; emergency alerts (e.g. of life-threatening drug-interactions); and an increase in preventative care due to empowered and informed patients. More generally, Patientory claims that the digitization of health care data will increase healthcare quality and efficiency while reducing the nation’s healthcare costs by billions each year.Patientory and the EHRAccording to Patientory CEO Chrissa McFarlane, adoption of the Electronic Health Record has reached “approximately 90%” among health care providers. Nonetheless, McFarlane points out that recent security breaches have only worsened concerns over the privacy and security of EHRs. Furthermore, doctors and hospitals are often unable to share their information with one another. The result is not only an inefficient system, but a marked decrease in the quality of care. After all, every minute that doctors spend manually entering their patient’s data is another minute they could have spent with their patient. McFarlane maintains that blockchain is the most popular solution to the problem under discussion among technologists specializing in the healthcare sector. Patientory is building their platform accordingly.The Patientory crypto-tokenOn April 25th, Patientory announced that they were taking a bold step toward realizing the task of interconnecting patients’ EHRs (while preserving their privacy) with the introduction of the first crypto-token to the healthcare sector. According to McFarlane, the Patientory platform will transfer tokens—PTYs—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patients. The result: both a reduction in the cost, and an increase in the quality, of healthcare. Patientory’s token sale is set to open on May 17th.The Patientory platformOn a more technical level, the Patientory platform (a health information exchange or HIE) makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology to encrypt and decentralize data so that it distributed and HIPPA-compliant. As a result, with Patientory’s help, “the healthcare ecosystem” now has the means to embrace a blockchain platform and “to seamlessly exchange” information. According to Patientory, providers have every reason to participate, as the blockchain system promises to improve efficiency, eliminate redundancy and bring down the cost of care.Taking a broader view, Patientory sees a new model emerging for the U.S. healthcare system. McFarlane explains that the overall goal is to transition the healthcare system in the U.S. from a “pay-per-service” platform to a “value-based” platform. But to accomplish this task requires a trusted healthcare information system that enables participating organizations to track and reward “medical interventions” based on their “quality, value and effectiveness.”Overall, Patientory has a bold vision backed by a sophisticated app and blockchain platform. Yet the healthcare system has been slow to embrace systematic change in the past. Therefore, whether Patientory will succeed where others have failed in transforming the health sector is an open question. For fans of the “Facebook for healthcare,” a cautious optimism may be in order.Contact us for more information on healthcare start-ups utilizing transformative blockchain technology.
Using Blockchain in Genomics.Blockchains offer a reliable way to establish the provenance of information. A record added to a properly maintained blockchain is irrevocable, unmodifiable, and time-stamped. That’s a strong guarantee that the information existed at the time indicated. It lets a creator establish the existence of prior art on a specified data and avoid errors or falsifications.Participants are issued digital IDs and private keys, and any records they place on the blockchain are digitally signed. They can’t subsequently revoke the records or plausibly claim they didn’t create them.Blockchain and Genomics ResearchThese features can be valuable in genomics. An article in Bio-IT World, “How Blockchain Is Helping Genomics Research,” discusses current work in the area. In pharmaceuticals, new strains are constantly developed and people claim patents on them. A record of a genome unambiguously shows who entered it and when. In patient studies, recording a genome and associated clinical information can make information widely available while guaranteeing its authenticity and integrity.MGC’s blockchain approachMedical Genomics, a Boston-based company, is “using the blockchain for proof of existence.” One of its areas of focus is genomic fingerprinting and safety testing of strains of cannabis for medical purposes. MGC and its parent company Courtagen Life Sciences are involved in sequencing the genomes of patients with seizure disorders. Research has found connections between such conditions and the endocannabinoid system, and MGC is studying marijuana treatment for them.MGC proposes to let participants record genetic information on strains of cannabis they are working with. If a patent later lays claim on that genome, the record will show an earlier description of it. Some companies, known as patent trolls, file dubious patents for the sole purpose of collecting licensing fees. Without such convincing evidence of prior art, it’s difficult to challenge a troll’s claim. Kevin McKernan, the Chief Security Officer of MGC, calls this a way to “digitally notarize” a genome.A central database can serve a similar purpose, but it has problems of trust. It belongs to some company or organization, and businesses may question its neutrality or reliability. A blockchain is shared among many parties, so none of them can alter it, lose records, or add spurious records without detection.Genomics on patientsIf genomics on pharmaceuticals offers promise, genomics on patients can offer still more. The Global Alliance for Genomics and Health, known as GA4GH, is looking into a blockchain on genomics data for variants of cancer. This approach increases the availability of the data, especially in places that would find it difficult to pay for such information.At the same time, the people involved recognize, publishing genetic information on individuals raises privacy concerns. EU privacy requirements are especially strict. If the information can be linked to identifiable people, that is a legal concern.Private blockchainsA private blockchain might be a workable compromise. Private blockchains provide only a weak form of a public blockchains guarantees, since copies are limited to what the managing authority allows and aren’t publicly verifiable. Still, they give a better guarantee of provenance and authenticity than a conventional database. All records are cryptographically signed, so a central authority can’t easily forge or alter the records any participant creates.Christian Saucier, CTO at Ubitquity, sees private blockchains not only as a way to record sensitive information but as an internal tool for large organizations. Within the organization, they can serve to exchange and validate data. The “smart contract” aspect of blockchains can coordinate actions among different parts of a large corporation.Provenance and authenticity are a part of any blockchain use, but usually they aren’t the primary goal. Applications need them for financial transactions, consolidated information from multiple sources, and contracts. Sometimes the only thing needed is to show when a record was entered and make sure it’s authentic. Genomics is a striking example, though certainly not the only one.Are you interested in joining the blockchain healthcare discussion? Contact us with any questions you have.
Simply Vital Health – Blockchain Fueled Value Based Care.Simply Vital Health is using blockchain technology to clear a path for patient careData portability, track-ability and analysis is continually a problem in the healthcare sector. These deficiencies lead to lost time and money as well as deficiencies in patient care.  Fixing these problems will improve the overall experience and wellness of patients while saving time and money for hospitals and private providers alike. Fortunately, Simply Vital Health has developed a blockchain based based solution that is simple, easy to use and integrates with existing systems.Founder of Simply Vital Health, Katherine Kuzmeskas, MPH, has a strong passion for patient centric quality care. She saw opportunity for the makings of Simply Vital Health while working at the Center for Musculoskeletal Care. She states: “I heard physicians and nurses say over and over again how they wanted to be able to see how their patients were recovering after they left the hospital. Hearing directly from the clinical team that they wanted a more direct connection to their patients was excellent validation.”Virtually every provider is concerned with following clinically validated, government and insurance approved care plans to assure that the care will not be denied for payment. Simply Vital Health provides an online tool powered by blockchain technology that monitors and records providers as they administer every step along the value chain. If a provider forgets a step, they can quickly check the platform to see which process has been overlooked. One of blockchains key features, an immutable audit trail, enables providers a sense of quality assurance. If the government or insurance provider seeks to deny coverage, the process can be quickly and securely shared to confirm that all of the appropriate steps were taken.  This level of automated efficiency allows providers more time to focus on their patients, and less time worrying about record keeping.Similarly, providers are constantly concerned with the cost of care and revenue associated with care. Without careful monitoring, costs can balloon out of hand and cause major losses.  Simply Vital Health provides an extremely valuable tool that tracks payments and processes closely.  It includes the prospective payment programs and helps providers understand the true financials. This data is securely held with blockchain technology in an easy to use and understand format as well.Providers are often met with intense data demands from industry associations, internal efficiency standards, clinical best practices and of course government and insurance payment demands. Simply Vital Health allows for tracking of CMS programs including MACRA and APMs through its simple tool. It conducts advanced analytics and also intensive monitoring. Physicians and provider management will have a much better window into their operations. The tool creates custom reports and can be shared internally and externally through the highly secure blockchain format.Without these reports or data availability, audits and denials of payment are common. Institutions need to prepare for these consequences and take preemptive action to avoid the pain and cost of an audit or denial. Without a sophisticated tool that can access the correct data rapidly, an institution may be in store for a painful process, even if they have done everything correctly.Best of all, these monitoring and tracking systems integrate seamlessly into existing legacy software systems. While a back-end system run entirely on the blockchain is theoretically possible, it is still not a reality for almost any health care provider. For that reason, Simply Vital Health recognized that it would have to produce a tool that integrates with existing system. Their blockchain solution is easy to input as an add-on to the most popular existing systems. In addition, the company can work with providers to customize the solution to the individual demands of an institution.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes some of the leading companies employing blockchain technology in the health care sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the sector. For more information, please contact us.  A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Healthcoin – blockchain-enabled platform for diabetes prevention.Diabetes is one of the biggest challenges in health care today. Due to changing diet and lifestyle patterns, more and more people are contracting this disease. In addition, the personal and public costs of the disease are growing rapidly. Fortunately, a company called Healthcoin has emerged to fight this disease using a combination of incentives and technology to influence the choice people make. They hope to prevent new diabetes cases and reduce the symptoms of current patients. Blockchain is a powerful new technology (used in the revolutionary Bitcoin monetary system), that creates an unbreakable mathematical string to store and exchange information. Healthcoin has taken advantage of this technology to create a system that aims to radically reduce the effects of diabetes.The cost of diabetes is simply exploding. According to one study, the global cost of the disease exceeds $827 billion dollars and 3.7 million lives annually. As the average age of Americans and people around the world gradually increases, more diabetes cases are expected as people become more sedative. That will increase continue to increase costs. One study estimates that a quarter of all adults in America will have diabetes by 2050.Personal costs of diabetes are also huge. The monthly costs of insulin ranges from hundreds to thousands of dollars. Additionally, individuals with diabetes find that they are more likely to face other injuries ranging from cardiovascular issues to blood problems to constant nagging lower body injuries. All of these issues cause more use of the health care system which means more out of pocket expenses as well as a higher overall insurance bill.However, Healthcoin has a revolutionary incentive system that tracks all of a person’s lifestyle choices. As they continue to make good choice, they submit biomarkers (like heart rate, weight, sugar level etc.) to a database run on the blockchain. Healthcoin’s algorithm then calculates the change or improvement in the health of the individual. Based on their improvement, they earn a certain amount of Healthcoins. Healthcoins can be used to decrease insurance costs, recognize achievement and demonstrate improvement with health care providers, friends and family alike.The key to the innovation is that the results of the progress are stored on the blockchain. The user and Healthcoin have complete control over who has access to the information. That means that the key personnel including doctors, family, insurers and the individual patient will have access in an unbreakable database. The patient may also elect to share the information with friends, an employer, the government or public health organization using the information for research. The data can be uploaded, stored and shared from anywhere in the world but is also completely secure using the blockchain technology.The incentive structure of the Healthcoin system also creates a strong impetus for the patient to make the right choices to improve their health. Those include exercising, eating right, increased everyday activity and better mental health. With the Healthcoin system, these choices are immediately reflected in biomarkers which are tracked closely. Improvement over time leads to a reduction of medical costs as well as a reduction in the costs the insurer will bill. Patients seeking to reduce their medical costs would be wise to make the healthy choices that reduce the symptoms of diabetes and are reflected in their biomarkers.Healthcoin’s revolutionary solution and technology are continuing to gain traction. While the firm is still small, its progress may help to tackle the serious problem of diabetes.Block Chain Healthcare Review is the leading site for understanding and discovering blockchain based healthcare companies. The site helps interested experts and community members to discover emerging companies, technology, personnel and news. For more information, please contact us.—–You might also like:Abid Hospital in Pakistan Accepts PakCoin Cryptocurrency How Gem is building a blockchain healthcare network
Abid Hospital in Pakistan Accepts PakCoin Cryptocurrency.The Abid Hospital in Islamabad, Pakistan, has become the first hospital in Asia to accept payments in cryptocurrency. Patients get a 20% discount when they pay in Pakcoins.Abid is a fairly new hospital, opened in January 2015. It is primarily a surgical facility and lists a staff of nine doctors. It accepts a limited number of charity cases.While Bitcoin remains secure as the world’s leading cryptocurrency, it has become less suitable for some purposes than it used to be. It was the first of its kind, and its creator, the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, didn’t expect today’s widespread use. Transactions require confirmation for recipients to be sure they’ve been paid; otherwise, dishonest people could spend the same money twice. The time to complete confirmation has grown long, sometimes taking hours.  The associated fees have grown large enough to discourage Bitcoin’s use for small payments.Many alternative currencies have entered the competition, offering solutions to these problems. PakCoin is specifically aimed at Pakistanis, though it can be used anywhere. Up to 150,000 Pakistanis can get 50 Pakcoins (a very small amount at current exchange rates) for free. It claims “nearly instant transactions” and very low or zero processing fees. It’s derived from Litecoin, which was designed to handle higher transaction volumes than Bitcoin. Like Litecoin, it relies on an algorithm known as scrypt.Pakcoin and Litecoin use the same blockchain concepts as Bitcoin. There are multiple copies of the ledger. New blocks are created by “mining,” which requires computational effort and is rewarded by newly created units of currency. The code is open source.The advantages of cryptocurrencyAn interview with the developer of Pakcoin (who goes by the name Pakcoin) discloses some of its purposes. A key goal is to make it usable for ordinary people who don’t know much about cryptocurrency or blockchains. Eventually people will be able to associate wallets with user names, so that they can accept payments at an address with a recognizable name.Pakistan isn’t a wealthy country. The average annual income is about $1500 in US currency. Investment and savings are low. Only 15% of Pakistanis have bank accounts. Cryptocurrency can be a useful tool for people who don’t have bank accounts or credit cards. The challenges in Pakistan are strong; only about a quarter of the population has a mobile Internet connection. Smartphone adoption is growing fast, though, and could exceed 50% by 2020.The risksCryptocurrency remains risky. Some currencies have collapsed when their development teams fell apart. People who put all their money into Pakcoin could get rich or lose everything.Any new way of doing business opens up avenues for fraud, since most people don’t understand it in detail and can be tricked. If user names become a common way of designating wallets, spoofing of names will inevitably follow. Fraudulent exchanges will try to cheat people, taking money outright or misrepresenting market exchange rates.The value of a cryptocurrency comes from its usefulness in exchange, and every organization that accepts payment in it adds to its legitimacy and stability. In some parts of the world, such as Pakistan, more people have cell phones than have bank accounts. Cryptocurrency payments stand a reasonable chance of being widely adopted, since they’re a more accessible option for a large part of the population.Abid Hospital is small and new, but it might be the start of a trend. As more organizations adopt digital currency as a payment option, it will become more familiar, and the currency will stabilize. There are still many ways the scenario could go wrong, but it’s a trend worth watching.Blockchain technology has many potential uses in healthcare, from payment to sharing of patient records. Blockchain Healthcare Review covers them all. Join the discussion- contact us.
How Gem is building a blockchain healthcare network.How much do you know about your medical identity? You know you’re generally in good health. You know your height and your weight. You know if you have any chronic conditions. But can you remember how many tetanus shots you’ve had? Do you know which percentile your height placed you in for each year of life? Could you tell your doctor the exact amount of time you’ve been taking a prescription medication to the day?These are the details that make up your “medical identity.” A data scientist would call these details “longitudinal data.” Longitudinal data consists of hundreds of data points that are updated over the course of your life to paint the picture of your health. Each time you go to the doctor’s office, you add data to your longitudinal data set. Medical scribes and your primary care doctor carefully update your file and tuck it away amongst all your records.But there is a problem with this system. It is slow, cumbersome and practically unsharable. If you change doctors you have to go through length processes to ensure that your records arrive at your new doctor. If disaster strikes and you need your medical records right away, precious time is wasted hunting them down.The team at Gem, startup based in Venice California, is seeking to apply blockchain thinking to these data issues that are rampant in the healthcare sector. While Gem wishes to expand their process to include blockchain-based problem solving for all industries, they are beginning by tackling the issue of “patient identity” in the healthcare system.Gem seeks to connect all the disparate arms of the healthcare industry by creating a communal healthcare ecosystem. The key to their system is that they include a heavily patient-driven component. They have partnered with Phillips to begin their work on making patients active contributors and keepers of their medical identity.Their system works upon a series of nested systems that are all recorded and enforced using the blockchain ledger concept. On the patient level, mobile apps can record wellness data (think exercise apps like Strava, or your Apple Health App). Hospitals continue to collect and keep patient clinical records. Insurance companies continue to keep records of their claims. While these systems are now separated, Gem’s system seeks to create an ecosystem where these records can interact.This ecosystem is called the “Gem Health Network,” and is intended to create a standard for healthcare data that does not compromise security or privacy.The theft of healthcare  data has become a pressing issue for insurance companies and other medical enterprises. In December, the firm Quest Enterprises lost 34,000 files of patient data in a hacking attack, including their names, addresses, and phone numbers as well as further longitudinal data. Quest patient systems are relied on by many medical professionals even though their online platform is not encrypted.Gem’s blockchain application seeks to add security to patient information in two ways. Firstly, “permissioned blockchains” can control who has access to certain sensitive information. Additionally the identity of both parties in blocked, ensuring anonymity for sensitive healthcare data in the event that a hacker infiltrates the system. They can never come away with a way to link patent information to the patient themselves. Additionally, the shared ledger in which every event is timestamped cannot be tampered with. There are thousands of safeguards throughout the system (Gem’s Health Network) which are constantly updated in real time.Gem’s concept for a healthcare web has gained significant traction. They were rated the second most popular business development of the year by Bitcoin Magazine. They have raised 10.4 million in Series A funding so far and enjoy the support of companies like Capital One and KEC Ventures.
Hashed Health, a Blockchain Healthcare Consortium.Hashed Health, a startup organization based in Nashville, has received $1.8 million to promote and develop blockchain-based healthcare technology. The sources are Martin Ventures and Fenbushi Capital.Formed in 2016, Hashed Health describes itself as a blockchain healthcare consortium. COO Corey Todaro mentions that it includes “a broad range of types of organizations”. These organizations will coalesce into working groups. A Development Studio will accept ideas from the working groups and bring them from the proof-of-concept level to commercial products.Hashed Health has joined the Hyperledger Healthcare Working Group. Its principal aim within the group is to work on blockchain libraries and protocols. Other organizations in the group include Accenture, Gem, Kaiser Permanente, and IBM. The working group’s aim is to evaluate use cases for blockchain technology in healthcare. It is turning over a set of 70 proposals to the Department of Health and Human Services.Hashed Health is working on Facilitating transactionsHashed Health’s gateway projects include a demonstration of the ability to “improve data liquidity” in provider credentials. Confirming provider credentials and enrolling them in payment networks is a tedious process today. Payers often have inaccurate information; according to Hashed Health, the information in their directories is often as much as 20% wrong. Establishing credentials generally takes over 120 days. Patients endure the delays and costs. The complexity of the system is a major cause of high insurance premiums and out-of-pocket charges.Hashed’s alternative is a “decentralized transaction layer” that holds provider information, including updates and corrections. “Digital data assets” are encrypted data items created by contributors to the blockchain. Only registered users can contribute, following the permissioned blockchain model. Transactions consist of transferring assets from one user to another, and all transactions are recorded on the blockchain. Client applications uses a REST API in peer-to-peer mode.Auditability is a central goal. Lightweight clients will be able to audit the transaction records, with complete verification rather than just random samples. They can work directly with the blockchain, eliminating the need for a secure server. Providers are required to retain complex documentation for years. Doing this is costly under traditional methods. Blockchain records keep all the information together, protecting it from loss or alteration. Anyone authorized to access them can identify omissions without much trouble.Blockchain Regulatory and cultural issuesTodaro recognizes that regulation is as big an issue as technology. HIPAA requirements for protection of personal information are strict, and fines for breaches can be huge. Sharing methods that could work in other industries aren’t always feasible in healthcare.Beyond that, he says that “the biggest hurdle to the implementation of blockchain is the industry culture in healthcare.” Existing business models are based on holding on to data. The idea of sharing data in new ways is “threatening to a lot of enterprises.” Todaro recognizes that requiring organizations to change their workflows will run into heavy resistance; the new technology has to fit the workflow. The consortium’s goal is to develop new forms of organization and build new kinds of competence. It aims for a regulatory environment that will let blockchain approaches flourish.The working group structure stresses collaboration rather than isolated development. Working together, they’ll be able to develop multiple proofs of concept in parallel, and the Development Studio will pick up the best of the ideas. Projects will stress open-source development.The ideas which Hashed Health is promoting sound excellent. Businesses will have to work together to develop standards, make secure sharing part of the culture, and obtain a favorable regulatory environment . How much does the consortium have going for it? Does it include any influential members? These are the questions Hashed Health will have to answer in order to prove itself.Are you ready to take the next step in the blockchain revolution? We’d love to talk with you. Contact us with any questions you have.
Healthcare Blockchain Summit in DC.Blockchain technology in healthcare is in its early stages. Many startups are promoting their ideas. Many products are competing for attention. Should health organizations move now or wait? Which standards will last, and which are dead ends? The Healthcare Blockchain Summit will offer a chance to explore the many alternatives.Everyone recognizes that existing approaches do a poor job of sharing personal health data. Security breaches cost healthcare organizations millions of dollars every year. Delays in authorization get in the way of treatment. Making information readily available while keeping it secure requires a new approach. Blockchain technology could provide the answers, automating the authorization process with peer-to-peer technology and cryptography.On March 20 and 21, many industry representatives will gather in the FHI 360 Conference Center in Washington, DC to present and discuss blockchain approaches to health data. Anyone seriously involved in this area should consider attending.Cooperation and standardsThe blockchain future will require widely accepted standards. The aim is to let a patient move data freely from a primary care provider to a lab, a specialty clinic, or a hospital as needed. If they don’t all talk the same language, this won’t be possible. Each startup has its own approach, but they will need to find common ground. One consistent set of standards has to emerge, and everyone will have to adapt their work to it.This still leaves room for many companies to provide parts of the solution. Cooperation and the development of standards will be a major theme of the conference.Government regulations back up the need for interoperability. The Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 requires the adoption by 2023 of an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace the distribution of certain prescription drugs. Manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers will need to adopt standard methods of product identification, tracing, and verification. The blockchain approach may be the best way to meet its requirements.Discussion topicsThe agenda will include speeches and panel discussions with representatives from startups, large companies, educational institutions, and government. Topics will include models for cooperation, business and economic issues, legal concerns, and patient control. Several speakers will look at the ways the financial industry is exploring blockchain. Bitcoin is only the best known of them. “Smart contracts” are important in finance, and they will be necessary to defining information access rights to health data.Current methods of conveying consent to release information are clumsy. Smart contracts not only build that information into the blockchain but enforce it. Their use to establish trust relationships, even among organizations with no prior relationship, will be among the topics on the conference’s agenda.Chairperson Jody Ranck’s scheduled opening remarks will stress the need for cooperation and standards. Other speakers will discuss the business models, the development of an ecosystem, and patient control. Sponsors include T-Systems, Peer Ledger, and Spiritus Partners.The conference and beyondThe optional Post-Summit Workshop will cover issues of designing and implementing pilot projects. Starting at 2:00 PM following the close of the conference, it will address business, engineering and legal issues in creating a blockchain application.The conference and the workshop will offer many chances to learn about the state of the art and make business contacts that will help in ongoing blockchain ventures. Meal breaks and a networking reception will let attendees catch all the events that interest them and still find time to talk with colleagues.The FHI 360 Conference Center is in the downtown Washington area, near Dupont Circle. Group and student discounts are available.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a Supporting Publication for the conference. Come talk with us while you’re there! Contact us if you’d like to learn more about what we’ll be up to.
Yale Hackathon Presents RadBit for Medical Images.Who has a patient’s medical images? Will they be usable when they’re needed? A proposal at the 2017 Yale Healthcare Hackathon would put control in the patient’s hands. A blockchain-based system called RadBit aims at letting patients maintain medical images in a permissioned blockchain. A team of researchers from several educational institutions presented the proposal.Currently, healthcare providers retain images, and patients can sometimes get their own copies. This is a fragile system for several reasons:Patients may not know or remember who has the images. Providing authorization to obtain the images can be time-consuming when the information is urgently needed. Patients may lose image files. They may receive them on a CD, not copy it onto their computer, and lose track of the CD. (Many modern computers don’t even have CD drives.) File format compatibility issues can get in the way. Medical images are stored in many different formats, including ones requiring specialized software.The RadBit presentation included a prototype and proof-of-concept code, using an example blockchain.RadBit image managementPeter Nichol of Quinnipiac authored the article describing RadBit. A bit immodestly, he declared that his team’s work “stood out for creativity, practicability and commercial viability.” The presentation addressed uploading, storage, and retrieval and promised “patient-generated, patient-owned” portability for images.He is the co-author of a paper, “Co-Creation of Trust for Healthcare: The Cryptocitizen Framework for Interoperability with Blockchain.” A study of it gives more insight than the brief sketch of RadBit. The paper clarifies that the blockchain wouldn’t store the actual patient data but would hold cryptographic hashes for identifying and authenticating records.A permissioned blockchain is one where only authorized parties can update it or participate in validation. Bitcoin, the best-known blockchain example, is unpermissioned; anyone can attempt to update it, and updates are validated by consensus based on cryptographic signatures. Unpermissioned blockchains work well where participants are anonymous and only transactions matter. Permissions ones have advantages for establishing the identity of people and organizations.Questions remainLike many blockchain use cases that involve restricted access to confidential data, RadBit will have to address two issues to become a viable solution. One is the establishment of immutable, authenticated, readily available records. Blockchain technology accomplishes this. The other is storing the data in a way that’s available through the blockchain, with acceptable security and long-term viability. The RadBit proposal glosses over this, but it’s an equally important issue.The blockchain can’t hold medical image data for several reasons. It’s huge, and the blockchain would quickly become unmanageably large. It would need to be encrypted to prevent unauthorized viewing. Assuming that today’s encryption methods will never be breakable is a large leap of faith, so putting permanent encrypted records in public view is a bad idea. The images need a secure repository, and that brings us back to the problem of proprietary storage which blockchains try to overcome.Any archive needs to address certain issues to be useful. It needs a policy on acceptable file types. It won’t do a healthcare provider much good to get image files, if they’re in a format so obscure that it can’t open them.It needs a metadata policy. Most archives require a certain amount of metadata, so the contents are identifiable and useful. Perhaps this archive should require stripping metadata instead. If all the metadata is only in the blockchain, then the image files are less useful to thieves. At the root the question is: Who will control the archive and set its policy?Healthcare blockchain solutions need to provide not just an answer to the issues of authentication and access, but a way of dealing with the data records that doesn’t undermine the blockchain’s advantages. The latter part isn’t as glamorous. It involves traditional issues of large-scale data storage and security. Without it, the solution is incomplete.The report on RadBit provides a fascinating glimpse into one approach to blockchain health data management. Hopefully its creators will provide more detailed information soon.Do you want to get more involved in the conversation on blockchains in healthcare? Contact us.
September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge.As blockchain technology continues to improve and the ecosystem improves, there are more and more events to highlight the successes of the community.  As a distributed system of accounts, blockchain’s unique and virtually uncrackable technology as led to an explosion of applications that can improve the lives of humans around the world.  Although original uses were focused on finance, blockchain healthcare applications continue to grow and improve.  The September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge is one such event that highlights many uses of the technology, including especially applications.The event will be hosted by the National Institute of Health in Maryland on the 26th and 27th of September 2017.  The NIH is calling for people, companies or researches to present papers and new research about how to secure transmit and encode digital health care records. As part of the government’s requirements under Obamacare for hospitals to switch to digital health records, virtually all of the new medical records are stored on computers.  However, no single system or software is being used to transmit that data around the county to different centers about each patient.Fortunately, blockchain technology may be the solution to this key problem of the health care sector.  In fact, some of the paper’s that will be presented at the challenge have already been announced.One paper, produced by MIT researchers called “Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and Data” envisions a secure peer to peer network where patients can freely transmit their records to the medical providers of their choice.  This gives them the power and freedom to control who sees the records without the worry of the information being stolen.  That is because blockchain’s encryption capability makes stealing the data extremely difficult.Another paper by an unaffiliated researcher is titled “Blockchain Technologies: A Whitepaper Discussing how Claims Process can be Improved”. The paper discusses how the insurance claims process can be streamlined and smoothed for all parties.  The insurance and reimbursement process is one of the most infuriating and complex aspects of the healthcare industry for all involved.  Doctors hate the labyrinth of documentation needed and the all to frequent denials of routine procedures.  Insurance companies and the government hate to be overbilled or fraudulently billed by doctors seeking to provide medically unnecessary procedures. While blockchain technologies cannot solve all of the problems, they can make documentation and sharing much easier.  All parties involved will be more accountable as the medical information becomes more transparent, shareable and verifiable.The conference will be held at the National Institute of Standards and Technology which is a division of the National Institute of Health.  The NIST is key to formulating government policies and standards in the medical industry. Participants will have access to hear the latest from policy makers about the government’s attitudes and uses of blockchain technologies.The conference will also include updates on some of the government’s most ambitious blockchain technology endeavors.  For example, the Digital Bazaar Project is a task that could give every citizen a digital profile that is secure and interoperable on blockchain.  That would represent a huge step forward for the health care space in particular but also finance, voting and other record keeping.  The Xcelerate Solutions Project is another blockchain based program that allows disaster relief workers to identify themselves using blockchain technology and gain access to a disaster site for clean up.  FEMA is heavily involved in this project.Lastly, all of the challenge winners will be announced and prizes will be awarded.  Those prizes include grants to continue research.  Winners will also gain additional status in the blockchain community as an expert in government adoption.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a leading site providing the latest events and information about this critical sector.  For more information, please contact us.
IBM Watson Health Announces Collaboration on Blockchain for Healthcare.When IBM and the FDA are working together on blockchain technology for healthcare, it’s a clear sign we should take it seriously. IBM Watson Health has entered a research initiative with the FDA to design a blockchain approach to exchanging health data.The problems to addressHealthcare information sharing needs to simultaneously satisfy the requirements of security and availability. Blockchain technology provides a “highly secure, decentralized framework for data sharing that will accelerate innovation throughout the industry,” in the words of Shahram Ebadollahi, IBM Watson Health’s Chief Science Officer.A survey by the IBM Institute for Business Value found that seven in ten of the industry leaders polled expect high benefit levels from blockchain in clinical trials, regulatory compliance, and medical records. From the standpoint of patients, a blockchain approach will help the in getting access to their own data and sharing their information securely.This is the “long data” (longitudinal data) issue. Long data is all the information relating to a subject, however many sources it comes from. Blockchains are designed for bringing together many data sources in one place.Because of federal requirements, many healthcare facilities have adopted Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). Sharing them, though, is currently difficult because they contain highly sensitive information and there’s no standard way to share them securely. Healthcare facilities have often been unable to share EMR data securely even with other facilities in their own group. The blockchain initiative aims at removing these barriers to sharing information.IBM announced the agreement on January 11, 2017, and the initiative will cover a two-year period, but initial findings should be available in 2017. The initial focus will be on oncology.Blockchain with identities and permissionsThe blockchain approach in this initiative comes from the Hyperledger project. It differs in important ways from the better-known Bitcoin implementation:Bitcoin deals in cryptocurrency. Hyperledger doesn’t. Bitcoin participants are anonymous. The Hyperledger blockchain uses verified identities, but anonymity is available where it’s appropriate (e.g., clinical trials). The Bitcoin network is permissionless; anyone can participate. The Hyperledger blockchain network is permissioned, meaning that only authorized participants can contribute to it. Anyone can read the transactions in the Bitcoin blockchain. The transactions in the healthcare blockchain will be cryptographically protected. “Smart contracts” in which specified conditions trigger actions are part of the Hyperledger technology. Bitcoin doesn’t include them. In Bitcoin, a method called “proof of work” generates consensus on blockchain transactions. It’s often slow. Hyperledger uses a method called PBFT, which resolves transactions more quickly and is more scalable.The key common feature is the use of a tamper-evident ledger, with multiple copies to assure its authenticity. This means that the information is widely available and very difficult to change improperly.The promise for healthcareSeveral startups have already experimented with blockchain approaches to healthcare records. IBM reports that 16% of the healthcare executives surveyed are planning some form of adoption in 2017. However technically sound the existing approaches are, their value is limited unless one of them gets wide acceptance. The entry of IBM, in collaboration with the FDA, has a better chance of setting a standard that everyone will have confidence in.The collaboration will examine the use of data from multiple sources, including EMRs, mobile and wearable devices, and Internet-connected medical devices. Combining these sources will allow nearly real-time updates of patient status in the blockchain. Authorized healthcare providers will have up-to-date information on patients without having to struggle through paperwork. The result will be more effective treatment and more time available to spend with patients.If it succeeds and gains widespread adoption, the blockchain healthcare initiative promises major advantages to both providers and patients.Our aim is to create a community of blockchain healthcare enthusiasts. To learn more, please contact us.
Smart Health Profile: A Solution to Medicaid Churning.Recently the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) embarked upon their “Blockchain Challenge,” which solicited proposals on blockchain as a tool with which to improve healthcare IT.The smart health profileFifteen proposals were selected as finalists, including a whitepaper by the Blockchain Futures Lab titled “A Blockchain Profile for Medicaid Applicants and Recipients.” The paper introduces a blockchain-based innovation, the smart health profile, which would use tools such as tokens, wallets, smart contracts and oracle services “as a foundation for rethinking the way that individual health and financial information is accessed and used.”The whitepaper applies the principles behind the smart health profile specifically to the problem of “churning” within Medicaid, whereby complex means-tested programs of eligibility, repetitive re-qualifications, and lengthy waiting periods yield a “constant exit and reentry of beneficiaries.” As a result of this turnover, the average adult within the Medicaid system is covered for only four-fifths of the year. Further, access to care is lost, poor health outcomes are more likely, and care providers must dedicate time to constantly checking recipient eligibility.The proposal argues that a blockchain-based smart health profile and streamlined infrastructure would provide solutions to the obstacles responsible for churning, including:distributed data sources a high need for simultaneous privacy and transparency verification requirements a need for intelligent assistance throughout the processIndeed, as a distributed ledger technology blockchains’ dynamic record would provide a truly distributed identity in enabling on-demand access to specific information, regardless of where the information may reside. The aggregation and verification of data from an array of sources, in combination with a smart query system, would then enable the profile to “act as a broker that can answer questions…as the need arises.” And when combined with artificial intelligence, that information may allow the smart profile to remind a user and/or health professional regarding medication refills, contraindications, high-risk behaviors and Medicaid eligibility changes. All the while, the profile would present a pseudonymous profile, meaning that only those provided with a private key would be able to unlock the identity of its subject.Essentially, the smart pseudonymous profile would utilize zero-knowledge proofs and “diverse data streams that are verified through consensus oracle networks,” to build a more efficient, effective Health IT system.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
Review of Zcash and Potential Applications for the Healthcare Industry.Zcash for the healthcare industry, providing ultimate privacy for patients and providersReview: Zcash, additional privacy for medical transactions.Zcash is the latest bitcoin-derived cryptocurrency, rolled out on Friday October 28 of 2016. Where Zcash differs from other cryptocurrencies is that all transactions offer full anonymity with every transaction. This privacy is further guaranteed by the use of public blockchain structures as the platforms of use.Complex cryptography to create true financial privacy.Zcash goes even further in providing private transactions by employing a form of cryptography called zero-knowledge proofs. Without getting too deep in the crypto speech, what zero -knowledge proofs create is the knowledge that something happened, but the outside observer has no way of knowing any particulars about that event.An example of ZcashYou start with ten wallets with one bitcoin each in them. 2 users employ Zcash transparency protocols. What is recorded on the blockchain is 10 bitcoins, 2 of them shielded. This is an oversimplification, but you get the picture.Who needs this kind of privacy?Lots of people. The era of cryptocurrencies being associated with nefarious deeds and transactions is ending. Here are some examples of people wishing to shield their financial transactions from scrutiny.Zcash and the Ethereum blockchain.The newest update of the Ethereum blockchain will include almost full functionality with Zcash protocols. Ethereum blockchain technology is revolutionizing the healthcare industry for the better. As Zcash protocols thrive and diversify, all blockchain applications will start providing zero knowledge proof technology to their clients large and small.Decentralizing the health care industry for superior security.Most noteworthy, blockchain technology and applications like Zcash make it easier for the individual or health care provider to access secure and private networks for their patient data and transactions. This creates a situation where both end-user and recipient benefitIn conclusionBlockchain technology is changing the way health-care professionals and organizations do business. From providing better security and safety protocols for patient records and transactions to creating safe data storage for massive amounts of patient data, health care providers are leaping onto the blockchain bandwagon. Any additional structure that aids in that process is a welcome. Zcash is another tweak to provide stable security and privacy during medical transactions. When you are ready to learn more please contact us.
ONC Blockchain Challenge Winner: MIT’s Experimental Learning Proposal.As part of the President’s Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI), in August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began their “Blockchain Challenge.” The ONC challenge solicited proposals on how blockchain may be utilized to improve healthcare IT and to enable a “new era of clinical care through research, technology, and policies that empower patients, researchers, and providers to work together toward the development of individualized care.”Of the more than 70 proposals received, 15 were selected as finalists. Among those selected was Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and DataProject, a whitepaper by less succinctly named PharmOrchard of MIT’s Experimental Learning “MIT FinTech: Future Commerce.”MIT’s proposal explored threats PMI data’s security, confidentiality, integrity and availability and presented he OPAL/Enigma project3 as a strategy towards mitigating those challenges. The OPAL/Enigma project3 creates a peer-to-peer network based on highly optimized multi-party computation and secret-sharing via a permissioned blockchain that records and controls access through smart contracts and digital identities. OPAL thereby enabling complete privacy in analyzing jointly stored data, increasing interoperability. In sum, the OPAL/Enigma project3 uses blockchain technology to resolve the tension between the creation of a secure environment for stakeholder Electronic Health Information (EHI) and the necessity of efficiency in sharing that sensitive information. And, as a secure infrastructure that doesn’t sacrifice the ability of exchangeability of data, OPAL would be a potential tool providing:resolution of infrastructural matters, such as time and cost  to the analysis, storage and manipulation of health information; a better framework for precision medicine trials; the development of more comparative trials; a more cost-effective development of drugs; and the development of more effective treatments to patients.The proposal focuses on the OPAL system as a platform for the creation of accessible (yet confidential) databases of patient information at scale, and the ability to utilize information for expansive and nuanced adaptive clinical medical trials. However, it also notes that the system would, on an individual level, allow for a more holistic treatment of patients via a shared medical history.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
Blockchains Rising Impact on Healthcare.The current healthcare IT (HIT) infrastructure holds healthcare data in some type of centralized location such as an EHR system or a repository run by a health information exchange (HIE). Health IT systems notoriously suffer from critical flaws  to privacy and security due to the complexity of sharing troves of medical and financial data from various points of care.Blockchain technology is a way of organizing data so that transactions can be verified and recorded through the consensus of all parties. Blockchain technology requires each individual participant (i.e. node) to hold a copy of the entire record.  Any change to this record must be compared against every node before being approved . The trick for the healthcare sector is to decide how much personal information to actually put on the blockchain (depending on need). The other option is investing in the development of better key distribution systems that could allow individual users to allocate access to each point of care such as Provider X, Specialist Y, Pharmacy Z etc.Blockchain Technology Impact in Healthcare InnovationIntroduction of blockchain in healthcare will address these matters. The public conversation about blockchain in the healthcare sector is gaining traction. The Distributed: Health conference showcased a strong desire to learn and innovate was palpable.Control of medical expenditureMedical care is far too high and continues to rise. Solving this problem is not in sight, even as the health sector moves in to adopt blockchain. As blockchain continues to prove relevant in streamlining cost saving measures in finance, the health sector will in turn address optimizing transaction based operational bottlenecks. Examples include bundled payments and claims remittance. Steady adoption is key to success, taking lessons learned from the rapid adoption in the finance sector.Updating current HIT infrastructureAs opposed to adopton, some argue that it’s better to upgrade the existing infrastructure as a short term fix. The argument sticks to the fact that the healthcare industry is not yet ready for production-ready technology. While that may be true as of this writing, it most likely won’t stay true for long. The conversation has shifted from tech enthusiast circles to the boardroom in a very short period of time.HIT Security ConcernsSecurity of health records and other details are imperative to secure in the healthcare sector. In an article published by Reuters, medical record are worth more to hackers than credit card numbers. Now that HIPPA mandates for EHRs are in full fine mode for non compliance, developing cryptographically secured methods for sharing PHI data is a must win battle for the U.S.  healthcare system is to survive.For more details on upcoming block chain conferences, contact us.
Review of Healthcare Startups focused on Blockchain.The revolutionary nature of blockchain technology in storing data and intellectual properties is not limited to the banking and credit card industries, not by a long shot. Health providers and insurers are moving to blockchain platforms aggressively; the inherently safe nature of blockchain creates a secure haven for data as sensitive as medical records and statistics.Legal ramifications of data breaches: apologies don’t work anymore.Medical records by their very nature are private and sensitive. As is medical research and technology. More and more, companies with security breaches and data theft are being held responsible for that data loss, the consequences can be financially devastating.Enter Blockchain.Blockchain is a technology that arose from the Bitcoin dissemination worldwide. While bitcoin is both fascinating and unstable, the real take-away from bitcoin was the system designed to guarantee the security of all bitcoin transactions globally: Blockchain.How does blockchain work?A simple explanation of how blockchain works is that whatever data or information you are storing is sent down a line of thousands (even millions) of nodes. Each separate node has a kernel or piece of the information needed to create the whole. No single node has enough information for a hacker or data breach to make any sense of. Pair with that “security in numbers” concept, the encryption of each node to protocols different from the next, and you have a system guaranteed to be safeHealth companies are sitting up and taking notice.In the years 2016 alone, multiple healthcare companies have started with blockchain as their primary data protection platform.What to take away from blockchain technology?It is an asset to the medical field at every level. Every day we hear of more sensitive data being hacked by by some nation state intent on getting their hands on private information. Companies are now being held accountable for their data losses and breaches. The health industry needs to implement blockchain tech to protect their masses of sensitive data as quickly as possible. Myriad start-ups are responding to that need with blockchain platforms and secure infrastructures.When you are ready to learn more please contact us
Distributed: Health Inaugural Blockchain Conference for the Healthcare Industry.On October 3rd, technology and healthcare industry leaders converged in Nashville, Tennessee for Distributed Health’s first ever Healthcare Blockchain Conference. The event drew worldwide attention and offered cutting edge insights regarding the breakthrough blockchain trend in healthcare. The conference included an impressive lineup of keynote speakers, a 24 hour blockchain solution competition that unloaded over $30,000 in prize payouts, a Blockchain 101 course, and professional networking opportunities for those in attendance. The event appropriately took place in heart of Nashville, Tennessee, a world-renowned leader in the healthcare industry and home to 18 publicly traded companies.Global Healthcare Blockchain ConferenceThe event has been covered by several leading publications and media outlets and has received recognition for its premiere presentation of issues  to block chain in healthcare. Productive Edge released an article directly following the event based on the conference’s performance offering encouragement to healthcare-technology professionals and hopefuls. Their publication listed observations that included establishing the credibility of the industry and the urgency for knowledgeable blockchain technologists needed to balance the supply and demand scale.Blockchain in Healthcare HackathonThe conference also held great rewards for up and coming developers who were awarded for their project submissions in the 24 hour Hackathon that was held October 1st-2nd. Veripharm took first place in the competition, winning $12,500 in BTC for their pharmaceutical supply accountability tracking blockchain application. HealthySELFIE, an eHealth wallet app, won $8,500 in travel, while others won lesser prize packages. Complete project submissions from the Hackathon have been posted by Distributed: Health online, where visitors can connect with applicants and support their favorites.Industry professionals can look forward to more healthcare relevant blockchain events, conferences and contests to take place in the future as this trend continues to take off and create interest.
Blockchain Expo North America – November 2017 in Santa Clara.As the world of blockchain technology grows exponentially larger, a series of blockchain conferences has emerged for people to meet and share information. This upcoming fall, the Blockchain Expo of North America will be held in Santa Clara, California. The event will be held from November 29th to 30th at the Santa Clara Convention Center near Silicon Valley. Engineers, businesses and interested individuals from the region and around the continent will come to discuss the emerging technology. One of the hot topics of the convention will be health care uses for block chain. It could be a major opportunity for new companies and organizations to be born.The event will feature over 1,500 attendees and 60 speakers doing 20 different sessions. There is an enormous amount of energy around this event and will have multiple areas of interest. Healthcare is one of the largest areas of interest as it is such a massive opportunity and industry.For example, the event organized a prime panel called “Blockchain in the healthcare system”. The two main speakers include Diego Espinoza, CEO of Health Coin and John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health.These two individuals will discuss three main areas. Firstly, they will talk about moving patient data on the block chain. The technology allows new friction free transfer of data that has so far eluded other companies and information technology. This is a huge development for software developers, payment providers, health care providers, doctors and patients. It makes the whole system more seamless which allows doctors to catch symptoms faster or make diagnoses easier.  They also no longer need to fear prescribing medication that conflicts with existing drugs or that the patient is allergic to.Next, they will discuss data sharing including patient privacy and security. This is perhaps the most important concept because blockchain technology can protect patient data and encrypt information with 100% security. It accords with the HIPAA regulation and also leaves the patient feeling safe about the transfer of their sensitive information. Government regulators have already signaled their positive feelings about this technology for that reason. It seems that the security features of the blockchain will help it gain rapid greater acceptance for this sector in the future.Finally, the panel will discuss trial visibility along with automated patient consent platforms. That technology will help scientists improve the speed and viability of drug testing. It will reduce costs and ultimately bring drugs to market quicker at lower prices. Scientists will no longer have to use cumbersome distribution models to find patients in need of their drug trials. Rather, they can use 100% secure digital distribution models to link with consumers, achieve their consent and administer the drugs in partnership with a local health care provider. The end goal is that the price of drug development will drop from hundreds of millions of dollars to perhaps tens of millions or even a few million dollars. That would radically upend the current go to market path for a new drug and cause a revolution in the industry. That could lead to many new breakthrough drugs.While the sponsors and attendees have yet to all be confirmed, the conference promises to have hundreds of individuals interested in the health care market. So more people with interest in this sector will be attending the conference than many free standing blockchain healthcare focused events.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading hub for information about the blockchain technology  to the healthcare industry. The site includes places to learn, exchange information and meet new entrants to the space. It profiles existing growing companies and breakthrough technology. For more information, please contact us.
2017 Distributed: Health – Nashville, TN.Distributed: Health Conference OverviewThe conference targets the healthcare, law and IT services industries. This year’s program provides conference sessions and three key learning opportunities for registrants: a two unit continuing legal education component, a 24-hour hack-a-thon for developers and a code camp. The CLE is open to attorneys and non-attorneys. Its track requires advance registration and costs $199. The hack-a-thon competition’s objective is to build and demonstrate an original blockchain-powered application. The competition offers prizes of more than $10,000. The code camp provides hands-on workshops for all levels of blockchain developers. The camp costs $50 and meets at The Bell Tower from 9:30 am to 5 pm, September 25th. The conference sessions cover four learning tracks:Blockchain for Business, CLE, Internet of Things, Payments.The two-day conference costs $649.Sessions and SpeakersThe conference kicks off with a keynote address from Change Healthcare CEO Neil de Crescenzo on his organization and its objectives. The networking lunch also features a keynote address. Dr. Harold Paz, Executive Vice President & Chief Medical Officer for Aetna will discuss his company’s Blockchain usage. The day closes with a keynote speech from John Sotos, Chief Medical Officer for Intel Health & Life Sciences.The conference features multiple panel sessions. These include:“A New Infrastructure for Healthcare,” combines presentations and discussion from: John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Bryan Smith, Chief Scientist of PokitDok; Miriam Paramore, President of OptimizeRx. “The Future of Payment Models” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development at Cerner Corporation; John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Francois de Brantes, Vice President & Director of the Altarum Center for Payment Innovation and Aaron Symanski, CTO of Change Healthcare. “Blockchain IoT Use Cases: Scalability & Security” with Siva Kannan, VP of Engineering for Gem; Carlos Elena-Lenz, Director of Intelligent Products & Solutions for Cognizant; Frank Ricotta, CEO for BurstIQ. “Introduction to Blockchain: Defining Use Cases” with Andrew Beal, Senior Manager of EY; Jennifer Georgino, Director of Ecosystem Development for Patientory; Brian Behlendorf, Executive Director for The Hyperledger Project; David Houlding, Director of Healthcare Privacy and Security for Intel Health and Life Sciences. “Blockchain & Revenue Cycle Management” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development for Cerner Corporation; Pearson Talbert, President of HealthcareTTU; Kyle Culver, Solution Architect for Humana; Scott Law, Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy, Zotec Partners; Jim Sohr, Chairman of Powered Health. “Clearing the Way for the Internet of Clinical Things” with Jason Goldwater, Senior Director of the National Quality Forum; David Metcalf, Director of the Mixed Emerging Technology Integration Lab at the UCF Institute for Simulation and Training; Kristen Johns, Counsel for Waller; Susan Ramonat, CEO of Spiritus Partners. “Laying a Foundation for Success: State Initiatives in Blockchain” with John Wagster, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Giles Ward, Executive Director for Hashed Health; Kenneth Bradberry, President of BlockChange. “Blockchain: The Individual & the Employer” with Frank Coliano, Operating Partner with The Riverside Company; Micah Winkelspecht, Founder and CEO of Gem; Peter Fuchs, Corporate Strategy for Mercer.WorkshopsThe first afternoon also offers hands-on learning opportunities. A workshop, “Blockchain Use Case Workshop with Optum,” hosted by Mike Jacobs, a Distinguished Engineer with Optum, introduces participants to Blockchain case studies. A live demonstration session, “Demos: Blockchain in Action,” presents technologies from Hashed Health, IBM, PokitDok, and the State of Illinois.CLE Session HighlightsA CLE registrants session, “Healthcare Regulation Meets Blockchain,” examines how Blockchain affects HIPAA compliance, legislative trends and regulatory issues. Panelists include: Caitlin Moon, COO and CDO for Legal Alignment; Larry Bridgesmith, CEO/Founder of Legal Alignment, Adel Elmissiry, CTO for Utilize Health, Jodi Daniel, Partner at Crowell & Moring.A second CLE registrants session, “The Legal Challenges of Token Offerings,” looks at the legal ramifications of token fundraising including securities laws, border limitations and consumer protections. Panelists include: Les Wilkinson, Chief Development Officer for Hashed Health; Gray Sasser, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Jason Epstein, Partner and Co-leader of Technology and Procurement Group for Nelson Mullins; Alan Cohn, Counselor and Strategic Advisor for Steptoe & Johnson LLP.See the agenda for Distributed: Health
Distributed Health Sept. 2017: Using Blockchain Tech to Lasso Healthcare.Last October at Distributed: Health, Hashed Healthcare announced their partnership with Martin Ventures to steer the healthcare industry into the blockchain age. This September, CEO John Bass and Chairman Charlie Martin will share with us details about their developing relationship. Expect to see some other friendly faces and meet new ones as world leaders gather to re-imagine today’s healthcare marketplace through implementing transformation technology into current infrastructure. Hosting a variety of speakers from Harvard Medical School and the CDC, to Aetna, to Intel Health and Life Sciences who will review opportunities and obstacles facing blockchain technology in institutional practices. Some leaders believe one benefit of this technology is to streamline communication between providers and patients. Crypto-mining malware isn’t new to cryptocurrencies and raises question’s concerning “crypto-security” and “immutability” that this technology claims to offer. Recently Ethereum (a popular blockchain platform) experienced another cyber-attack, though this time during the ICO phase. This begs the question: how secure is a programmed algorithmic self-aware system, if such software has already experienced two cryptocurrency heists? Hopefully this year speakers will discuss new coding developments to improve security measures and talk about how such a transparent system will meet HIPPA regulations, which were left hovering above the clouds last October. Perhaps recent events will light a new path, providing insights that may help to prevent future crypto-hacks.Schermerhorn Symphony Center September 25th-26th, 2017:Brought to you by Hashed Health & BTC Media!  Download The Event App Bizzabo!  You can PAY via Bitcoin!Healthcare Ecosystem a New MarketplaceSinclair Lewis’s literature wasn’t far off from envisioning the impact business and advertising would have on our culture as communication platforms evolved. Programmed to understand neuro-linguistics and graph human behavioral patterns, deep-chain self-aware software systems predict patient health habits to directly target marketing of products and services. Intelligent machines coupled with blockchain technology transform today’s traditional market into a virtual ecosystem. Smart devices connected to a blockchain cloud will digitally expand hospital arms into patient homes. The Internet of Things or inter-networking of smart devices, implemented with blockchain technology and smart contracts theoretically provides simultaneous immutable tracking of multiple data sources, like medical records and billing, in one de-centralized database. Imagine the limitless opportunities transformative technology will have on managing humanity’s health and wellness!Building Virtual ClinicsDigital connectivity provides an instant continual flow of information, leading to improved communication and care between providers and patients. An electronic health database and remote monitoring is especially useful for patients receiving cardiac or post-stroke care, as well as glucose management. Physicians: imagine the immediate impact and long-term effect of using a glucometer at home, with the added benefit of your patient uploading and sending the results to you daily. This will help Internists and Geriatric Specialists closely monitor glucose levels in their endocrine fragile patients. Peering through the screen, implementing a blockchain cloud system has potential to improve patient care while impacting the industry’s bottom-line, upstream and downstream.A few appealing characteristics:Blockchain Systems are attractive to employers and third-party payers alike! Software analytics predict patient health habits while positively impacting results! It’s more cost-effective to keep sick patients healthier and out of the hospital! Invest in the well-being of your community and see the value mirrored in the health of the population your institution treats! Intelligent machines offer solutions to long-term care by improving a patient’s access to their physician and open flow of communication! Incorporation of technological tactics opens the door to appropriating additional resources!This Year’s Featured Speakers:David Houlding~ Director of Healthcare Privacy & Security, Intel Health and Life Sciences  Lori Melichar~ Director, Pioneer Portfolio, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation  Jim Nasr ~ Chief Software Architect, CDC  Harold Paz ~ Executive VP & CMO, Aetna  Brian Behlendorf ~ Executive Director, The Hyperledger Project  Francois de Brantes ~ VP & Director, Altarum Center for Payment Information  John Bass ~ CEO, Hashed Health  John Sotos ~ CMO, Intel Industry Sales Group  Mike Jacobs ~ Engineer, OptumHurdlesAs of yet, cryptocurrencies have no sovereign regulation. Are crypto-coins just another commodity? In other words, what are they? Another red flag: blockchain technology risks detaching the human experience from medicine. A person’s real world identity is lost, though not a new problem in medicine, this technology may increase it. Too often are phrases heard like, “The kidney in 718 needs dialysis by tonight!” or “Are the sugars in room 1012 better controlled now?” Imagine how virtual examinations could intensify these kinds of interactions. Suddenly, the kidney in room 718 is an indiscriminate character behind a screen. Undeniably, connecting smart devices and medicine through the blockchain cloud offers solutions to redirect healthcare, though there are still bugs that need treated. This September, Distributed: Health speaker’s have an opportunity to provide us answers to last years question’s and address lingering security concerns!For agenda and registration link, visit the DISTRIBUTED: HEALTH 2017 event page.
2017 Pharma Supply Blockchain Forum.This June 6th, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is holding a major conference on blockchain applications for the pharmacy supply chain. This breakthrough event will bring together pharmaceutical professionals, engineers and programmers from around the world.  The even will be held at John’s Hopkins University facilities in Rockville, Maryland. Blockchain is the revolutionary new technology the allows two un parties to transact and store information using a complex mathematical string. It powers the popular digital currency bitcoin. The conference will explore how this technology can support new pharma breakthroughs and operations.IEE Blockchain ForumThe IEEE has over 420,000 members in over 160 countries and is the largest technical professionals group in the world.  They group has specifically taken up the cause of promoting blockchain technology to its members and bringing in new partners such as the pharma industry. This powerful technology could create major advances in health care and create many new jobs for IEEE members.  For that reason, the group is squarely behind this emerging technology.The event will be a one day educational forum going in-depth on the power of blockchain technology. The event will not simply review how the technology works. Instead, it is for people that are already familiar with it and are able to understand the technical details discussed at the conference.The ideal audience and attendees will be specialists that can implement solutions.  That includes managers, researchers, programmers, engineers and other company operations personnel. It could include prospective entrepreneurs but will also include academics, government regulators, corporate workers and even some non-governmental non-profit personnel.  Some investors and non-technical people may want to attend the event to gain further understanding of the technology and its purposes, although the topics will not be primarily geared for them.The first topic is optimizing the supply chain from production to patient. Blockchain may be used to provide more transparency and streamline the logistics process in this case.  Organizers also hope to better understand the restoration of the integrity of the supply chain using blockchain technology.Another topic is maximizing the potential revenue from the information stored on the blockchain. Investors, business people and entrepreneurs will be most interested in this topic. Some potential ideas include providing data on trial results or different compounds with an intuitive database or software system.Event organizers also want presentations on combining other emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and DLTs to optimize the supply chain. Academics, regulators and other innovators might be most interested in this topic.  Further, the event will explore how different partners can harmonize different technologies or standards and work together. The event will hopefully start the process of coordinating on singular standards for the industry.The role of digital identity in the pharma supply chain is another important issue.  As  more health care is delivered and customized to the individual, this question will inevitably become more important.Data governance is another key. What will be the standards to store data and how will it be migrated to the blockchain?  What software will interact with data and how will users analyze the information?Lastly, regulators will speak about how they see blockchain technology and its relation to the pharma industry and supply chain. Their guidance will help focus the efforts of industry and research to pursue government objectives, avoid areas the government discourages and also comply with government demands.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes leading healthcare  blockchain innovation, events and companies employing blockchain technology in the healthcare sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the HIT landscape. For more information, please contact us. A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Blockchain and Healthcare Data Management.There is a revolution unfolding with modern day healthcare information systems (HIS). If you are in the industry you undoubtedly are aware that blockchain technology is the latest buzz for HIS. Blockchain technology has the power to transform how health information systems are managed by working on solutions for many of the problems that has plagued the sharing of healthcare information in the first place.What is Blockchain?There is one thing that blockchain technology is not, simple to explain. Blockchain was developed for financial institutions to track deposits and withdrawals. It has allowed financial institutions to create an unamendable list that is time stamped within a cryptographic network. Copies are shared on every node of the network to provide easy, accurate information. The possibilities of what it can do for health care data are tremendous.Problems with healthcare information systemsHealthcare information management has always been handled by humans that have tried to:Manage information accuracy Share information securely View updated informationUnfortunately for the patient there are three ways that the above is done that does not really work. Each modality of sharing information has its failings that blockchain will solve:The SolutionsBlockchain would allow all providers to access your entire health history in a safe secure manner. Health information systems will be able to access community wide ledgers that have up to date patient information always available. It could change how services were provided, make diagnostic easier, manage medications more accurately and even help to provide more accurate treatment plans.Need to find direction with legacy healthcare information systems? We offer consulting for interested parties looking for blockchain HIS expertise and implementation ROI assesments.
Healthcare Blockchain Summit in DC.Blockchain technology in healthcare is in its early stages. Many startups are promoting their ideas. Many products are competing for attention. Should health organizations move now or wait? Which standards will last, and which are dead ends? The Healthcare Blockchain Summit will offer a chance to explore the many alternatives.Everyone recognizes that existing approaches do a poor job of sharing personal health data. Security breaches cost healthcare organizations millions of dollars every year. Delays in authorization get in the way of treatment. Making information readily available while keeping it secure requires a new approach. Blockchain technology could provide the answers, automating the authorization process with peer-to-peer technology and cryptography.On March 20 and 21, many industry representatives will gather in the FHI 360 Conference Center in Washington, DC to present and discuss blockchain approaches to health data. Anyone seriously involved in this area should consider attending.Cooperation and standardsThe blockchain future will require widely accepted standards. The aim is to let a patient move data freely from a primary care provider to a lab, a specialty clinic, or a hospital as needed. If they don’t all talk the same language, this won’t be possible. Each startup has its own approach, but they will need to find common ground. One consistent set of standards has to emerge, and everyone will have to adapt their work to it.This still leaves room for many companies to provide parts of the solution. Cooperation and the development of standards will be a major theme of the conference.Government regulations back up the need for interoperability. The Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 requires the adoption by 2023 of an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace the distribution of certain prescription drugs. Manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers will need to adopt standard methods of product identification, tracing, and verification. The blockchain approach may be the best way to meet its requirements.Discussion topicsThe agenda will include speeches and panel discussions with representatives from startups, large companies, educational institutions, and government. Topics will include models for cooperation, business and economic issues, legal concerns, and patient control. Several speakers will look at the ways the financial industry is exploring blockchain. Bitcoin is only the best known of them. “Smart contracts” are important in finance, and they will be necessary to defining information access rights to health data.Current methods of conveying consent to release information are clumsy. Smart contracts not only build that information into the blockchain but enforce it. Their use to establish trust relationships, even among organizations with no prior relationship, will be among the topics on the conference’s agenda.Chairperson Jody Ranck’s scheduled opening remarks will stress the need for cooperation and standards. Other speakers will discuss the business models, the development of an ecosystem, and patient control. Sponsors include T-Systems, Peer Ledger, and Spiritus Partners.The conference and beyondThe optional Post-Summit Workshop will cover issues of designing and implementing pilot projects. Starting at 2:00 PM following the close of the conference, it will address business, engineering and legal issues in creating a blockchain application.The conference and the workshop will offer many chances to learn about the state of the art and make business contacts that will help in ongoing blockchain ventures. Meal breaks and a networking reception will let attendees catch all the events that interest them and still find time to talk with colleagues.The FHI 360 Conference Center is in the downtown Washington area, near Dupont Circle. Group and student discounts are available.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a Supporting Publication for the conference. Come talk with us while you’re there! Contact us if you’d like to learn more about what we’ll be up to.
September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge.As blockchain technology continues to improve and the ecosystem improves, there are more and more events to highlight the successes of the community.  As a distributed system of accounts, blockchain’s unique and virtually uncrackable technology as led to an explosion of applications that can improve the lives of humans around the world.  Although original uses were focused on finance, blockchain healthcare applications continue to grow and improve.  The September 2017 Blockchain in Health IT Research Challenge is one such event that highlights many uses of the technology, including especially applications.The event will be hosted by the National Institute of Health in Maryland on the 26th and 27th of September 2017.  The NIH is calling for people, companies or researches to present papers and new research about how to secure transmit and encode digital health care records. As part of the government’s requirements under Obamacare for hospitals to switch to digital health records, virtually all of the new medical records are stored on computers.  However, no single system or software is being used to transmit that data around the county to different centers about each patient.Fortunately, blockchain technology may be the solution to this key problem of the health care sector.  In fact, some of the paper’s that will be presented at the challenge have already been announced.One paper, produced by MIT researchers called “Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and Data” envisions a secure peer to peer network where patients can freely transmit their records to the medical providers of their choice.  This gives them the power and freedom to control who sees the records without the worry of the information being stolen.  That is because blockchain’s encryption capability makes stealing the data extremely difficult.Another paper by an unaffiliated researcher is titled “Blockchain Technologies: A Whitepaper Discussing how Claims Process can be Improved”. The paper discusses how the insurance claims process can be streamlined and smoothed for all parties.  The insurance and reimbursement process is one of the most infuriating and complex aspects of the healthcare industry for all involved.  Doctors hate the labyrinth of documentation needed and the all to frequent denials of routine procedures.  Insurance companies and the government hate to be overbilled or fraudulently billed by doctors seeking to provide medically unnecessary procedures. While blockchain technologies cannot solve all of the problems, they can make documentation and sharing much easier.  All parties involved will be more accountable as the medical information becomes more transparent, shareable and verifiable.The conference will be held at the National Institute of Standards and Technology which is a division of the National Institute of Health.  The NIST is key to formulating government policies and standards in the medical industry. Participants will have access to hear the latest from policy makers about the government’s attitudes and uses of blockchain technologies.The conference will also include updates on some of the government’s most ambitious blockchain technology endeavors.  For example, the Digital Bazaar Project is a task that could give every citizen a digital profile that is secure and interoperable on blockchain.  That would represent a huge step forward for the health care space in particular but also finance, voting and other record keeping.  The Xcelerate Solutions Project is another blockchain based program that allows disaster relief workers to identify themselves using blockchain technology and gain access to a disaster site for clean up.  FEMA is heavily involved in this project.Lastly, all of the challenge winners will be announced and prizes will be awarded.  Those prizes include grants to continue research.  Winners will also gain additional status in the blockchain community as an expert in government adoption.Blockchain Healthcare Review is a leading site providing the latest events and information about this critical sector.  For more information, please contact us.
Pharma Blockchain Bootcamp: Conference Recap.Pharma Blockchain Bootcamp was an attempt to summarize ideas by various Pharmaceutical and data management companies over the uses of blockchain technology. Much of the technology is still new and not fully understood by the industry. The conference (sponsored by DisruptiveRx) started with an outline of what blockchain technology is and where it has been successful.Problem and SolutionOrganized around the idea of patient centered control, blockchain technology is seen (by some) as a way for individuals to control their own healthcare needs by having their medical data stored digitally. This solves the problem of paper records being mailed to and from hospitals and the possibility of loss and wait time. Companies like Factom Inc. created a biometric id verification for patient recognition that ensures privacy for the individual (another big problem with paper records).ComplianceThe technology could have applications for meeting the Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 according to Dr. Gilot (a speaker) of Blockchain Health. The idea is to track the drug from manufacture to purchase passing every regulatory hurdle and signature through the process. Having a software like blockchain that the industry agrees to share data through could make regulatory burdens much easier. Most of the proposals require the health care industry to sign on to the idea of digital records for patients.SummaryThe conference was the first of its kind for the Pharmaceutical Industry that focused exclusively on blockchain technology. Ideas for Pharma applications and web security companies are working on future trends for the health care industry. Understanding blockchain will be important when the new US Congress convenes in January and decides what to do about the Affordable Care Act.Review conference details: DisruptiveRx – PHARMA BLOCKCHAIN BOOTCAMP
Distributed: Health Inaugural Blockchain Conference for the Healthcare Industry.On October 3rd, technology and healthcare industry leaders converged in Nashville, Tennessee for Distributed Health’s first ever Healthcare Blockchain Conference. The event drew worldwide attention and offered cutting edge insights regarding the breakthrough blockchain trend in healthcare. The conference included an impressive lineup of keynote speakers, a 24 hour blockchain solution competition that unloaded over $30,000 in prize payouts, a Blockchain 101 course, and professional networking opportunities for those in attendance. The event appropriately took place in heart of Nashville, Tennessee, a world-renowned leader in the healthcare industry and home to 18 publicly traded companies.Global Healthcare Blockchain ConferenceThe event has been covered by several leading publications and media outlets and has received recognition for its premiere presentation of issues  to block chain in healthcare. Productive Edge released an article directly following the event based on the conference’s performance offering encouragement to healthcare-technology professionals and hopefuls. Their publication listed observations that included establishing the credibility of the industry and the urgency for knowledgeable blockchain technologists needed to balance the supply and demand scale.Blockchain in Healthcare HackathonThe conference also held great rewards for up and coming developers who were awarded for their project submissions in the 24 hour Hackathon that was held October 1st-2nd. Veripharm took first place in the competition, winning $12,500 in BTC for their pharmaceutical supply accountability tracking blockchain application. HealthySELFIE, an eHealth wallet app, won $8,500 in travel, while others won lesser prize packages. Complete project submissions from the Hackathon have been posted by Distributed: Health online, where visitors can connect with applicants and support their favorites.Industry professionals can look forward to more healthcare relevant blockchain events, conferences and contests to take place in the future as this trend continues to take off and create interest.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
Luna DNA, a Blockchain-Funded Community Genomic Project.Enter Luna DNA, another interesting turn in the healthcare industry.What is Luna DNA?Luna DNA is “a genomic and medical research database powered by blockchain.” Luna DNA takes a community-based approach to gathering and sharing medical data. Traditional medicine often takes samples and other information while giving little back, a state of affairs heavily criticized for example in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, where despite having their mother’s cells used throughout modern medicine, the children and other relatives received nothing in return. While medical laws try to protect individuals from unwanted medical procedures and breaches of privacy, these laws can also act against the interests of people, giving no or little incentive to contribute their DNA and medical information. Luna DNA strives to undo this unbalance by giving community members Luna Coins, digital currency, in exchange for sharing their information. This give and take system then entitles recipients to receive assistance information in turn.Roots in Genomic ResearchLuna DNA has its roots in genomic research, where useful information often depends on a cross-section of samples. Without samples to compare, genomic research quickly becomes irrelevant, even impossible. CEO and Co-Founder Bob Kain and President and Co-Founder Dawn Barry both have roots in Illumina, a global genomics company working in everything from healthcare to agriculture. While working at Illumina and in other industry- positions, Barry and Kain saw firsthand the benefits of genomics together with the challenges facing researchers and consumers alike. They wanted to find some way to incentivize individuals to share their information, because the more information available, the better the research results. The better the research results, the more consumers should be able to expect in return. Thus, Luna DNA was born.Why Blockchain?Cryptocurrency like Bitcoin and Luna DNA’s Luna Coins represent a new way to hold and keep data secure. In the case of Luna Coins, the community invests, members of community hold their coins, and this information is available to all parties, keeping business transparent while keeping each individual member’s information secure. In many ways, a business like Luna DNA is a prime example of when and why cryptocurrency is so important. You want everyone (at least everyone in the community) to help guard your data, so that it will be impossible for someone to counterfeit or change what you have stored in your ledger. At the same time, you want the details including your ownership to be kept private via privileged encryption, so that not just anyone can see the details.Considering the stated aim of Luna DNA, to hold highly personal information in a shared database where everyone benefits in a mutually understood way, blockchain is the perfect technology partner for this mission. Luna DNA successfully raised $2 million dollars in ICO capital last year. On a practical level as well as a symbolic one, blockchain works for this business.Blockchain and the Future of HealthcareLooking ahead to the future of Luna DNA, of Luna Coins, and blockchain tech in general, one can see a trend developing, a trend toward decentralized funding and greater community involvement on all levels. As healthcare continues to become more consumer-driven, with secure medical records access online and on-demand, funding and investing will have to evolve keep up. Only time will tell, of course, but savvy companies and savvy investors will do well to pay attention these and other opportunities as they arise. Times are definitely changing.For more information about blockchain funding in the healthcare industry, contact us today.
Supply Chain and Blockchain: The Future of Pharmacy.The interest in Blockchain and distributed ledger technology (DLT)has exploded in recent years with a large focus on the financial industry. Meanwhile, medical and pharmaceutical companies around the world are looking to DLT as a means of solving, securing, and streamlining their businesses. While there are many applications for DLT within the medical industry, one area where the technology excels is within supply chains. With sales ranging from US$163 billion to $217 billion per year, according to industry estimates, counterfeit pharmaceuticals are the most lucrative sector of the global trade in illegally copied goods. Fraudulent drugs harm or kill millions around the world and inflict serious damage on the brand names and bottom lines of major pharmaceutical manufacturers.A blockchain based system could excel in the instance of protecting consumers against counterfeit pharmaceuticals by encoding a log that would detail each stop within the supply chain. In this instance, consumers would be able to check a digital archive in order to ensure the legitimacy of their medication. The distributed nature of the technology ensures that all actors within the pipeline are not making dubious changes to the log. The Drug Quality and Security Act (DSCSA) is a regulation that requires an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace prescription drugs distributed in the United States. This law was originally passed in 2013 but won’t take full effect until 2023. Other countries are implementing similar programs. All manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers of prescription drugs in the U.S. market are required to comply.Blockchain’s immutability and provenance capability provide the basis for tractability of drugs from manufacture to end consumer, identifying where the supply chain breaks down. With the DSCSA regulations looming companies like MediLedger Project and SimplyVital are leading the pack with their healthcare oriented blockchain technologies. MediLedger is a collaboration between Chronicled and The LinkLab, bringing together both pharmaceutical supply chain and blockchain technologies. Their intention is to advance the dialogue of a blockchain utility to enhance pharma companies’ ability to manage their supply chains.SimplyVital has developed two products for the healthcare industry, both of which address different aspects; ConnectingCare and Health Nexus. ConnectingCare is designed for healthcare providers, such as a hospital. The technology enables customers to streamline data to save time and money. According to Lucas Hendren (Simply Vital’s CTO),“It uses care coordination and financial forecasting to help providers in bundled payments get insight into what happens to patients when they leave the hospital. It is a strategic early use case for blockchain in healthcare because it uses blockchain as an immutable audit trail.” ConnectingCare has already hit with its minimal viable product.Health Nexus which is another blockchain protocol crafted by Simply Vital is assisting the medical industry and consumer in storing, distributing, and securing medical data. Not only that, but Health Nexus will allow individuals to sell their data to interested 3rd parties through a secure pipeline and marketplace. Blockchain protocols like Health Nexus are likely to play a large in medical research. These protocols will also tighten consumer feedback loops and potentially save lives.Blockchain has already made an impact in the medical industry, and it’s only looking to gain speed from here. Healthcare Rallies for Blockchain, a study from IBM, found that 56% of surveyed healthcare executives had solid plans to implement a commercial blockchain solution by 2020. As the abilities of machine learning and artificial intelligence further leak into the medical industry, the need for a blockchain solution will increase exponentially.
CoverUS helps pay for your health insurance by using blockchain technology to securely broker your health data.CoverUS (pronounced “cover us”) is a blockchain-based, pre-launch healthcare startup that plans to reward its members with cryptocurrency in exchange for the right to broker their healthcare data. The startup won the Blockchain for Social Impact Hackathon in the Financial Inclusion category in November, and was featured in a FastCompany article earlier this month. Although no date is set for their ICO, CoverUS plans to hold a crowd sale of their utility token in 2018.The CoverUS missionCofounder and CEO Christopher Sealey argues that there are two problems in healthcare that CoverUS is directly addressing: one moral and one practical. The moral problem is that patients “should own their own data,” rather than be forced to sit back helplessly as companies buy and sell it. The practical problem is that a patient’s EHR does not tell the whole story of their health status, which requires the patient’s input. CEO Sealey believes that CoverUS’s solution can help solve both of these problems, while significantly reducing the patient’s healthcare costs in the process.The CoverUS appAt the center of the CoverUS strategy is a subscription-based mobile app. New users simply download and interact with the app, which stores their health data on their smartphone and serves as their digital wallet.The 21st Century Cures ActTo provide patients with quick access to their EHRs through the CoverUS mobile app, the company is taking advantage of a particular law within the federal 21st Century Cures Act, which mandates that as of January 1st, 2018, electronic healthcare systems in the U.S. must provide intuitive, open APIs that allow patients to easily access their EHRs.The blockchain: balancing privacy and sharingAccording to the CoverUS team, storing patient health data on the blockchain is necessary for two reasons: to keep the patient in the center of the decision-making surrounding third-party access to their data, and to achieve a balance between data-privacy and data-sharing.CoverCoinEssentially serving as a health data broker, CoverUS rewards patient-subscribers that allow the company to share their health data. The rewards come in the form of the company’s B2C digital currency: CoverCoin. CoverUS maintains that managing your CoverCoin account will be as simple as managing a frequent flyer rewards account. The app will prominently display the patient-subscriber’s total CoverCoin in their digital wallet, along with a list of recent activities that serve as credits and debits to their account. The mobile app prototype that the CoverUS team uses as an example shows a patient with a credit of “+75” for sharing their health data via a “Family Membership Survey” and a debit of “-120” for using their CoverCoin to pay for “Gym Membership Dues.” Two prominent buttons (Spend and Earn) lead the user-patient into the two complementary sides of the app.Tokens for healthcareAccording to CoverUS team, in order to incentivize healthy living, CoverCoin can only be redeemed for health- expenses. Cofounder Andrew Hoppin argues that if the company were to pay patients in cash, and they were to “spend that money on candy and cigarettes,” it would defeat the “virtuous cycle” of healthy living that CoverUS aims to reinforce.The CoverCoin wallet versus an HSAPatients can use the CoverCoin in their digital wallets to pay for many of the same health- expenses that health savings accounts (HSAs) provide for. However, the CoverUS team argues that their digital wallet is more flexible than a health savings account (HSA). Patients can redeem their tokens for a wider range of health- services and activities, including rides to a doctor or dentist appointment; childcare during a hospital stay; and gym memberships.Community sharingThere is also a community dimension to the CoverUS rewards program. By joining CoverUS, patients will also join the CoverUS subscriber community, and will learn about the health goals and financial struggles of other community members. If they wish, patients can transfer some of their rewards to other community members. They can also help other patients further their health- goals in non-financial ways and earn further CoverUS rewards in the process.Initial coin offeringAlthough CoverUS has not yet set a date for their ICO, cofounder and CEO Sealey told FastCompany that the startup plans to raise funds for their launch through a crowd sale of the company’s B2B utility token in 2018.For more information on healthcare startups utilizing the blockchain, contact us.
Blockchain Expo North America – November 2017 in Santa Clara.As the world of blockchain technology grows exponentially larger, a series of blockchain conferences has emerged for people to meet and share information. This upcoming fall, the Blockchain Expo of North America will be held in Santa Clara, California. The event will be held from November 29th to 30th at the Santa Clara Convention Center near Silicon Valley. Engineers, businesses and interested individuals from the region and around the continent will come to discuss the emerging technology. One of the hot topics of the convention will be health care uses for block chain. It could be a major opportunity for new companies and organizations to be born.The event will feature over 1,500 attendees and 60 speakers doing 20 different sessions. There is an enormous amount of energy around this event and will have multiple areas of interest. Healthcare is one of the largest areas of interest as it is such a massive opportunity and industry.For example, the event organized a prime panel called “Blockchain in the healthcare system”. The two main speakers include Diego Espinoza, CEO of Health Coin and John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health.These two individuals will discuss three main areas. Firstly, they will talk about moving patient data on the block chain. The technology allows new friction free transfer of data that has so far eluded other companies and information technology. This is a huge development for software developers, payment providers, health care providers, doctors and patients. It makes the whole system more seamless which allows doctors to catch symptoms faster or make diagnoses easier.  They also no longer need to fear prescribing medication that conflicts with existing drugs or that the patient is allergic to.Next, they will discuss data sharing including patient privacy and security. This is perhaps the most important concept because blockchain technology can protect patient data and encrypt information with 100% security. It accords with the HIPAA regulation and also leaves the patient feeling safe about the transfer of their sensitive information. Government regulators have already signaled their positive feelings about this technology for that reason. It seems that the security features of the blockchain will help it gain rapid greater acceptance for this sector in the future.Finally, the panel will discuss trial visibility along with automated patient consent platforms. That technology will help scientists improve the speed and viability of drug testing. It will reduce costs and ultimately bring drugs to market quicker at lower prices. Scientists will no longer have to use cumbersome distribution models to find patients in need of their drug trials. Rather, they can use 100% secure digital distribution models to link with consumers, achieve their consent and administer the drugs in partnership with a local health care provider. The end goal is that the price of drug development will drop from hundreds of millions of dollars to perhaps tens of millions or even a few million dollars. That would radically upend the current go to market path for a new drug and cause a revolution in the industry. That could lead to many new breakthrough drugs.While the sponsors and attendees have yet to all be confirmed, the conference promises to have hundreds of individuals interested in the health care market. So more people with interest in this sector will be attending the conference than many free standing blockchain healthcare focused events.Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading hub for information about the blockchain technology  to the healthcare industry. The site includes places to learn, exchange information and meet new entrants to the space. It profiles existing growing companies and breakthrough technology. For more information, please contact us.
2017 Distributed: Health – Nashville, TN.Distributed: Health Conference OverviewThe conference targets the healthcare, law and IT services industries. This year’s program provides conference sessions and three key learning opportunities for registrants: a two unit continuing legal education component, a 24-hour hack-a-thon for developers and a code camp. The CLE is open to attorneys and non-attorneys. Its track requires advance registration and costs $199. The hack-a-thon competition’s objective is to build and demonstrate an original blockchain-powered application. The competition offers prizes of more than $10,000. The code camp provides hands-on workshops for all levels of blockchain developers. The camp costs $50 and meets at The Bell Tower from 9:30 am to 5 pm, September 25th. The conference sessions cover four learning tracks:Blockchain for Business, CLE, Internet of Things, Payments.The two-day conference costs $649.Sessions and SpeakersThe conference kicks off with a keynote address from Change Healthcare CEO Neil de Crescenzo on his organization and its objectives. The networking lunch also features a keynote address. Dr. Harold Paz, Executive Vice President & Chief Medical Officer for Aetna will discuss his company’s Blockchain usage. The day closes with a keynote speech from John Sotos, Chief Medical Officer for Intel Health & Life Sciences.The conference features multiple panel sessions. These include:“A New Infrastructure for Healthcare,” combines presentations and discussion from: John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Bryan Smith, Chief Scientist of PokitDok; Miriam Paramore, President of OptimizeRx. “The Future of Payment Models” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development at Cerner Corporation; John Bass, CEO of Hashed Health; Francois de Brantes, Vice President & Director of the Altarum Center for Payment Innovation and Aaron Symanski, CTO of Change Healthcare. “Blockchain IoT Use Cases: Scalability & Security” with Siva Kannan, VP of Engineering for Gem; Carlos Elena-Lenz, Director of Intelligent Products & Solutions for Cognizant; Frank Ricotta, CEO for BurstIQ. “Introduction to Blockchain: Defining Use Cases” with Andrew Beal, Senior Manager of EY; Jennifer Georgino, Director of Ecosystem Development for Patientory; Brian Behlendorf, Executive Director for The Hyperledger Project; David Houlding, Director of Healthcare Privacy and Security for Intel Health and Life Sciences. “Blockchain & Revenue Cycle Management” with Ray Herschman, Vice President of Accountable Care Strategy and Business Development for Cerner Corporation; Pearson Talbert, President of HealthcareTTU; Kyle Culver, Solution Architect for Humana; Scott Law, Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy, Zotec Partners; Jim Sohr, Chairman of Powered Health. “Clearing the Way for the Internet of Clinical Things” with Jason Goldwater, Senior Director of the National Quality Forum; David Metcalf, Director of the Mixed Emerging Technology Integration Lab at the UCF Institute for Simulation and Training; Kristen Johns, Counsel for Waller; Susan Ramonat, CEO of Spiritus Partners. “Laying a Foundation for Success: State Initiatives in Blockchain” with John Wagster, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Giles Ward, Executive Director for Hashed Health; Kenneth Bradberry, President of BlockChange. “Blockchain: The Individual & the Employer” with Frank Coliano, Operating Partner with The Riverside Company; Micah Winkelspecht, Founder and CEO of Gem; Peter Fuchs, Corporate Strategy for Mercer.WorkshopsThe first afternoon also offers hands-on learning opportunities. A workshop, “Blockchain Use Case Workshop with Optum,” hosted by Mike Jacobs, a Distinguished Engineer with Optum, introduces participants to Blockchain case studies. A live demonstration session, “Demos: Blockchain in Action,” presents technologies from Hashed Health, IBM, PokitDok, and the State of Illinois.CLE Session HighlightsA CLE registrants session, “Healthcare Regulation Meets Blockchain,” examines how Blockchain affects HIPAA compliance, legislative trends and regulatory issues. Panelists include: Caitlin Moon, COO and CDO for Legal Alignment; Larry Bridgesmith, CEO/Founder of Legal Alignment, Adel Elmissiry, CTO for Utilize Health, Jodi Daniel, Partner at Crowell & Moring.A second CLE registrants session, “The Legal Challenges of Token Offerings,” looks at the legal ramifications of token fundraising including securities laws, border limitations and consumer protections. Panelists include: Les Wilkinson, Chief Development Officer for Hashed Health; Gray Sasser, Co-Chair of Blockchain and Digital Currency Practice for Frost Brown Todd; Jason Epstein, Partner and Co-leader of Technology and Procurement Group for Nelson Mullins; Alan Cohn, Counselor and Strategic Advisor for Steptoe & Johnson LLP.See the agenda for Distributed: Health
MedCredits and Hippocrates: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using Blockchain.Blockchain technology seeks to connect patients with doctors on a decentralized platform to help reduce healthcare costs associated with office visits and middlemen. Several tech startups are racing to cross the finish line! One such, MedCredits, claims they’re the first blockchain powered platform that connects providers to patients worldwide on a decentralized network. Many in the industry anxiously await the announcement or launch date for token sale, and MedX token price. To receive the blue ribbon that label’s them as the first company to successfully integrate blockchain technology and smart contracts into current healthcare designs would give them a proverbial leg up on the competition.MedCredits: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using BlockchainSimilar to other telemedicine startups, MedCredits desires to improve healthcare access and reduce rising healthcare costs. Developers believe trying to create a decentralized electronic medical record (EMR) is too difficult of a task to tackle all at one time, and rather approach implementation organically, growing the platform overtime by targeting medical specialities and slowly releasing software updates.Instead of dismantling an entire electronic system and re-training workers, MedCredit team members are approaching blockchain-based telemedicine through integrating technology into readily accessible medical specialities, like Dermatology, to serve as a foundation for later application into other fields.Dermatology is one of several specialities transforming the healthcare market by approaching it as a borderless, decentralized network. Diagnoses are largely based upon subjective descriptions and examination of skin, which Dermatologists agree can safely be accomplished with photographs and clear patient descriptions via smartphones.How It WorksMedCredits, built from the OpenBazzar code-based system, is working to seamlessly integrate Hippocrates, a user-friendly app connecting Dermatologists with their patients, on the MedCreditsplatform. OpenBazzar is a decentralized peer-to-peer sharing platform for goods and information. Hippocrates is a user-friendly app on the MedCredits platform, where providers and patients meet to discuss their skin concerns.Global Network ~ Borderless access to Dermatologists! MedCredits‘ goal is to globalize medicine!  Instant Connection ~ Hippocrates is a user-friendly application, prompting patients through each step to submit cases, receive diagnosis and hear treatment recommendations with the touch of a button.  Payment ~ Patients pay using MEDX, or ERC20 tokens, secured on Ethereum blockchain and regulated by self-executing smart contracts to track the automated transactions. Diagnosis ~ After successful transaction, patients receive diagnosis and recommendations from licensed medical professionals without ever having to leave their environment!AdvantagesMedCredits opens up hospital doors globally, providing borderless patient access to physicians, assisting to remove geographical barriers to clinics, and improving health outcomes worldwide. Overtime, MedCredits hopes to extend its reach to other medical specialities, such as Cardiology and Neurology, to interconnect EMR with other departments and hopefully global systems.Allows for physicians to access demographics who have limited mobility or means to attend regular appointments. Records are available through secured access, giving patients the keys for their health! Patients are given access to healthcare professionals for diagnosis, referral or treatment anywhere, at anytime!DisadvantagesResearch reveals that people spend over 90% of their free time on applications, though this doesn’t necessarily mean we should encourage it. Incentivizing patients through leaving star ratings, may impact an insurance company’s decision to provide coverage or include clinics in their network. This has possible ramifications on who is able to receive treatments locally, or be made to rely on smart technologies alone.People as LinksIt’s undeniable that aspects of telemedicine and blockchain technology help to streamline healthcare processes. Studies may show that more people are comfortable interacting through a screen. Admittedly, it’s difficult to untangle persons with technology, as one will often times support the other. Companies like MedCredits make telemedicine possible, and with some more research, can hopefully help us drive our health forward into the future!Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
Doc.ai – blockchain-enabled, AI-powered biology and health platform.A worldwide shortage of health professionalsThe Palo Alto-based, biology and health-focused AI company sees their technology as filling a much-needed gap in the present healthcare system. They point out that the World Health Organization has estimated that we are suffering from a worldwide shortage of seven millions healthcare professionals. Doctors and nurses are overworked, and relieving their burden with millions of additional healthcare professionals will inevitably require extensive, costly training over many years. According to doc.ai, however, AI can help relieve their burden and improve healthcare outcomes immediately.Information gatheringIn a recent article entitled “The Robo-Doctor will See You Now,” PC Magazine reviewed the doc.ai app after the company’s CTO provided a demo of the first stage of the patient’s interactive experience with the AI. The demo began with the AI, through the CTO’s mobile phone, asking the CTO to take a picture of himself with his phone (i.e. a “selfie”) in order for the AI to guess his gender, age, weight, height and BMI, all from his headshot. According to PC Magazine, other than the app’s guess of the CTO’s age, which was off by only a “couple years,” its analysis “was spot on.”In the next stage, the “robo-doctor” asks the patient to take a picture of their medicine cabinet and blood results. Later, the AI guides the patient through the process of importing subsets of their medical records (including “a full sequence genome” if the patient has one available) from various sources. As the patient’s personalized health data collection grows from all of their medical sources, the AI soon learns more about their health profile than any individual medical source could know. According to doc.ai, this puts their app in a unique position to provide highly informed medical insights.The AI-powered medical conversationOnce the aggregation of medical data is complete, the highly personalized, blockchain-enabled AI platform is able to respond to patients’ questions about their health 24/7 through the mobile app. According to the doc.ai team, the AI-supported dialogue is not merely a user-friendly interface for retrieving data already present in one’s medical record. Rather, it is a generator of new information and insight. In the company’s press release, doc.ai provides a number of examples of complex, personalized questions that the company claims their AI can handle, such as “What should be my optimal Ferritin value based on my iron storage deficiency?”The first “beta customer”Doc.ai is not only designing their AI to interact with patients, but health professionals. The company is currently testing their first module, Robo-Hematology, with Deloitte Life Sciences and Healthcare, their “first beta customer.” Co-founder and CEO of doc.ai, Walter De Brouwer envisions health professionals and institutions having a direct dialogue with lab tests themselves “by leveraging advanced artificial intelligence, medical data forensics, and the decentralized blockchain.”In addition to Robo-Hematology, within the next twelve months doc.ai plans to release two additional blockchain-enabled, AI-powered natural language dialog modules for use by leading medical organizations addressing specific areas of healthcare and life sciences: Robo-Anatomic and Robo-Genomics.Neuron: the doc.ai blockchain tokenIn order to reward usage and run their blockchain-enabled AI technology, doc.ai is following the Ethereum token standard to generate their tokens, which they are calling “Neurons” (NRNs). Doc.ai is creating a marketplace for SAFTs (Simple Agreements for Future Tokens) on September 7th, followed by a token sale on September 28th. Upon launch, SAFTs will convert to NRNs. To tie the size of their token pool to their subject matter, doc.ai plans to make the total number of NRNs 86 billion, roughly equal to the human brain’s total neuron count.Contact us to learn more. Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with leading DLT research in an effort to bring the most current information to members of the community.
iSolve – Innovation for the Drug Supply Chain.Blockchain technology began its innovative life in the cryptocurrency market segment. It moved quickly to disrupt other market segments  — representing many processes — who find it relevant to their security needs. And what is in greater need of chain of custody security than the drug supply chain? iSolve shows an innovative way forward for the drug supply chain using blockchain technology.End-to-end Drug Supply Chain Solution Using BlockchainInformation about the drug supply chain posts securely to the blockchain. Blockchain technology provides a way to trace drug movement from one trusted drug supply chain partner to another. The use of blockchain technology in the drug supply chain:makes auditing easier and more accurate; makes the drug supply chain transparent for Biopharma companies who want to see the distribution patterns of their medical products; applies in the $800 billion global pharma market; integrates existing systems and processes; and prevents counterfeit medications from entering the supply chain.Advanced Digital Ledger Technology (ADLT)iSolve developed ADLT to provide security in the drug supply chain. It accomplishes this by preventing counterfeit drugs from entering the supply but beyond that it provides:prompt secure communications between drug supply chain partners,  improved inventory control and management, improved medication recall procedures and processes, and global regulatory compliance.ADLT works toward structural soundness of the drug supply chain with respect to the needs of Pharma, vendors in the supply chain — and, of course, patients.BlockRXThis is iSolve’s platform (combining Blockchain technology and iSolve’s ADLT), designed to improve patient outcomes by integrating the work of life science researchers, BioPharma companies, medical device makers, medical equipment retailers, and health care providers. The BlockRX Ecosystem for BioPharma creates new revenue streams and manages costs. It changes the way BioPharma companies, health care providers and patients interact with each other. BlockRx also provides secure access to data.The BlockRX digital tokens that support life sciences go on sale September 21st.The Smart MarketplaceBioPharma Tech Transfer Offices and service providers can enter The Smart Marketplace to take advantage of the Smart IP, Smart Services, and Smart Investment components. They can search intellectual property (IP) postings from around the world to help them build their own supply channels or locate new technologies that help them develop their drug enterprises.BioPharma companies can connect with investors that are a good match for them at their particular stage of development.Tech Transfer Offices, service providers and investors who take advantage of the Smart Marketplace gain exposure to more clients, identify needs that exist in the marketplace and track the companies that need the type of expertise and special services that they can provide.Blockchain Project Portfolio Management (BPPM)BPPM tracks tasks/deliverables, organizes, and schedules projects that BioPharma companies enter into the Blockchain for Smart IP, Smart Investment, and Smart Services. BPPM helps identify and manage projects without burdening the BioPharma companies with more administrative tasks.BPPM automatically posts the updated plan via an email response system as work completes.Investors can see at what stage the BioPharma company project reached at any given point in time. Investors can also see the milestones completed as required for initial or additional funding stages.All activities of Tech Transfer Offices, Service Providers, Investors and BioPharma companies post to the Blockchain in a portfolio. iSolve analyses and posts metrics about the activities which helps organizations when they search for possible partners.To learn more about iSolve’s solutions to fundamentally change drug development by interconnecting systems that do not communicate well with each other and to establish data provenance, read the blockrx.com white paper.
IEEE Pharma Supply Blockchain Forum: Improving the Pharmacy Supply Chain.When it comes to Blockchain, the big question today is how to put it to work for you. We keep our eyes peeled each year for events that will interest you in this area — and we believe this year’s Pharma Supply Block Chain Forum fits the bill. So read on for highlights from this Event review – Pharma Conference.The Pharma Supply Block Chain ForumThis event was held on June 6, 2017 at the Johns Hopkins University Montgomery County Campus in Rockville, Maryland. It was an information packed, one-day, educational program about Blockchain technology and its uses with respect to the Pharma supply chain. This was not just a one-off event. It was the first in a series of events whose goal is to promote Blockchain technology in the pharmaceutical sector.Who were the speakers?This forum was impressive for the breadth and depth of experience of its presenters. The forum included regulators, representatives from the academic world as well as industry and technology experts. Speakers included representatives from the following companies:Amgen Blockchain Healthcare Review Chain Business Insights Health Linkages IBM Life Sciences Peer Ledger PharmTech SafeBio Pharma Steptoe & Johnson, LLP IEEE Spectrum T-Systems AmericaThe Pharma Supply Block Chain Forum spread wide its audience netFrom Vice Presidents, senior directors and managers, to benefit managers and hospital staff, as well as government regulators, students and researchers  — the content added value to all attendees. The industries most affected were those in the manufacturing end of the pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences as well as wholesalers, hospitals, and technology vendors.What topics did the Forum cover? Forum presenters expressed their views on the following:Improving the drug supply chain from manufacturers to patient, including the opportunities for collaboration from IOT, AI, Blockchain, DLT’s just to name a few Increasing revenue from data in the Blockchain Digital identity concerns in the drug supply chain Working better with trusted partners Understanding what the regulators have to say about the drug supply chain Smart contracts Management and security of data Integrity of the supply chainThe keynote address, for example, asked the question whether Blockchain is the right fit for Pharma’s supply chain. Other speaker topics ranged from a food safety case study to the smart way to do smart contracts. The Digital Identity issue inherent in using Blockchain for Pharma included tips on using a double layer framework to secure both the product supply chain and with respect to patient information.Another presentation reviewed the contenders for the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (DSCSA) track and trace program, a program intended to help the pharmaceutical industry comply with the Act. DSCSA imposed new requirements on manufacturers, repackagers, drug dispensers, pharmaceutical wholesalers, and their trading partners. The new rules with respect to standards of practice and product tracing phase in over the next six years which made this a particularly appropriate topic for this Blockchain Forum.IEEE areas of pharmacy and supply chain interestSupply chain operations and IT. With respect to supply operations, the Forum aimed at those with an interest in:Distribution Management Partnership development Quality Control Compliance Finance SecurityOn the IT side, the Forum impacted those whose work touches:Big Data Data governance Cloud management Data architecture in Enterprise corporations Information security Data engineering Tech innovationsPerhaps the most impressive thing about this list is that it is not exhaustive. And, as this was only the first in a series of forum events, expectations for the entire series run high.To talk more about this topic, or anything else, please contact us. We look forward to answering all your questions about Blockchain and its impact on the Pharma supply chain.
MedRec: Innovating Blockchain for Healthcare Data Management.MIT Media Lab’s MedRec is a blockchain-based healthcare data management solutionTheir central focus is on the Electronic Medical Record (EMR). MedRec aims to give patients access to, and control over, their EMR while facilitating and motivating medical research.The patient interfaceMedRec provides a user-friendly interface for patients to access their EMR. The interface includes notifications of any updates to the EMR. MedRec also enables users to decide “when, and with whom, they share their data.” Patients will have the power to use the MedRec interface to grant a guardian, family member, new doctor or any other participant the rights to view their data. Furthermore, patients may share information regarding a specific subset of their EMR (such as data relating to a specific health condition) while keeping the rest of their EMR private. MedRec gives patients a high level of granular control over their data, and can even isolate individual fields for independent sharing or restricting.MedRec as a “Database Gatekeeper”MedRec does not store any actual medical records on their blockchain network. Rather, MedRec stores “aggregate data pointers” that only reference the medical records, which remain in their existing databases. These “pointers,” or references to the actual medical data, are at the heart of MedRec’s approach and are aggregated into patient-provider relationship units. As viewership permissions for the actual medical data change, these pointers and relationships get updated, allowing or restricting access to the medical data accordingly. The entire process operates through their “Database Gatekeeper layer.” MedRec maintains that its blockchain model, centered around their “Database Gatekeeper layer,” alleviates many common concerns that would otherwise arise without it. Perhaps most importantly, it allows providers to keep their existing databases and continue to use them as they do now. This not only makes participation in the MedRec network all the easier and affordable for providers, but may facilitate HIPAA compliance.Motivating medical researchThe MedRec team maintains that the medical research that is essential for helping researchers and providers find new cures and treatments is greatly hampered by the present lack of access to sufficient medical data. Although some clinical trial and other data does “trickle through,” there is a pressing need for more data that is currently inaccessible.MedRec hopes to provide a solution to this problem by introducing a “data economy.” In return for providing the “computational resources” that support the MedRec blockchain network, medical researchers and other participants will receive “census level, anonymized metadata” that is useful, presumably, for their research. Of course, patients and providers (“the data producers”) will have a say in how much of this metadata they release to the researchers and other participants (“the data consumers.”)The future of a blockchain EMRMedRec plans to perform ongoing usability and feasibility testing of their system with both patients and providers. This process will involve partnering with local healthcare providers to test the efficiency of their prototype. Once ready, they intend to release their framework as open source software. However, they are firmly committed to the principle that to use the system is not to own the data.Unlike most, if not all, of the other nascent blockchain healthcare projects, MedRec is not a company. Nonetheless, their ambitions are similar to a host of startup companies in this emerging space. In terms of their prospects for success, their affiliation with MIT certainly plays in their favor both in terms of instilling trust in participants and in terms of providing access to the university’s technical and human resources. Furthermore, their model’s Database Gatekeeper layer has a number of advantages, noted above, that might make them especially attractive to providers with cost, integration and regulatory concerns. It is perhaps more difficult to predict how providers and patients will respond to their model’s “data economy” approach, although it does appear to provide a genuine incentive to medical researchers.Contact us for more information on blockchain healthcare startups.
2017 Pharma Supply Blockchain Forum.This June 6th, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is holding a major conference on blockchain applications for the pharmacy supply chain. This breakthrough event will bring together pharmaceutical professionals, engineers and programmers from around the world.  The even will be held at John’s Hopkins University facilities in Rockville, Maryland. Blockchain is the revolutionary new technology the allows two un parties to transact and store information using a complex mathematical string. It powers the popular digital currency bitcoin. The conference will explore how this technology can support new pharma breakthroughs and operations.IEE Blockchain ForumThe IEEE has over 420,000 members in over 160 countries and is the largest technical professionals group in the world.  They group has specifically taken up the cause of promoting blockchain technology to its members and bringing in new partners such as the pharma industry. This powerful technology could create major advances in health care and create many new jobs for IEEE members.  For that reason, the group is squarely behind this emerging technology.The event will be a one day educational forum going in-depth on the power of blockchain technology. The event will not simply review how the technology works. Instead, it is for people that are already familiar with it and are able to understand the technical details discussed at the conference.The ideal audience and attendees will be specialists that can implement solutions.  That includes managers, researchers, programmers, engineers and other company operations personnel. It could include prospective entrepreneurs but will also include academics, government regulators, corporate workers and even some non-governmental non-profit personnel.  Some investors and non-technical people may want to attend the event to gain further understanding of the technology and its purposes, although the topics will not be primarily geared for them.The first topic is optimizing the supply chain from production to patient. Blockchain may be used to provide more transparency and streamline the logistics process in this case.  Organizers also hope to better understand the restoration of the integrity of the supply chain using blockchain technology.Another topic is maximizing the potential revenue from the information stored on the blockchain. Investors, business people and entrepreneurs will be most interested in this topic. Some potential ideas include providing data on trial results or different compounds with an intuitive database or software system.Event organizers also want presentations on combining other emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and DLTs to optimize the supply chain. Academics, regulators and other innovators might be most interested in this topic.  Further, the event will explore how different partners can harmonize different technologies or standards and work together. The event will hopefully start the process of coordinating on singular standards for the industry.The role of digital identity in the pharma supply chain is another important issue.  As  more health care is delivered and customized to the individual, this question will inevitably become more important.Data governance is another key. What will be the standards to store data and how will it be migrated to the blockchain?  What software will interact with data and how will users analyze the information?Lastly, regulators will speak about how they see blockchain technology and its relation to the pharma industry and supply chain. Their guidance will help focus the efforts of industry and research to pursue government objectives, avoid areas the government discourages and also comply with government demands.Blockchain Healthcare Review highlights and promotes leading healthcare  blockchain innovation, events and companies employing blockchain technology in the healthcare sector. These high-tech companies are growing rapidly and transforming the HIT landscape. For more information, please contact us. A friendly consultant will walk you through the technology and how it may best be used at your organization.
Pharma Blockchain Bootcamp: Conference Recap.Pharma Blockchain Bootcamp was an attempt to summarize ideas by various Pharmaceutical and data management companies over the uses of blockchain technology. Much of the technology is still new and not fully understood by the industry. The conference (sponsored by DisruptiveRx) started with an outline of what blockchain technology is and where it has been successful.Problem and SolutionOrganized around the idea of patient centered control, blockchain technology is seen (by some) as a way for individuals to control their own healthcare needs by having their medical data stored digitally. This solves the problem of paper records being mailed to and from hospitals and the possibility of loss and wait time. Companies like Factom Inc. created a biometric id verification for patient recognition that ensures privacy for the individual (another big problem with paper records).ComplianceThe technology could have applications for meeting the Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 according to Dr. Gilot (a speaker) of Blockchain Health. The idea is to track the drug from manufacture to purchase passing every regulatory hurdle and signature through the process. Having a software like blockchain that the industry agrees to share data through could make regulatory burdens much easier. Most of the proposals require the health care industry to sign on to the idea of digital records for patients.SummaryThe conference was the first of its kind for the Pharmaceutical Industry that focused exclusively on blockchain technology. Ideas for Pharma applications and web security companies are working on future trends for the health care industry. Understanding blockchain will be important when the new US Congress convenes in January and decides what to do about the Affordable Care Act.Review conference details: DisruptiveRx – PHARMA BLOCKCHAIN BOOTCAMP
ONC Blockchain Challenge Winner: MIT’s Experimental Learning Proposal.As part of the President’s Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI), in August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began their “Blockchain Challenge.” The ONC challenge solicited proposals on how blockchain may be utilized to improve healthcare IT and to enable a “new era of clinical care through research, technology, and policies that empower patients, researchers, and providers to work together toward the development of individualized care.”Of the more than 70 proposals received, 15 were selected as finalists. Among those selected was Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and DataProject, a whitepaper by less succinctly named PharmOrchard of MIT’s Experimental Learning “MIT FinTech: Future Commerce.”MIT’s proposal explored threats PMI data’s security, confidentiality, integrity and availability and presented he OPAL/Enigma project3 as a strategy towards mitigating those challenges. The OPAL/Enigma project3 creates a peer-to-peer network based on highly optimized multi-party computation and secret-sharing via a permissioned blockchain that records and controls access through smart contracts and digital identities. OPAL thereby enabling complete privacy in analyzing jointly stored data, increasing interoperability. In sum, the OPAL/Enigma project3 uses blockchain technology to resolve the tension between the creation of a secure environment for stakeholder Electronic Health Information (EHI) and the necessity of efficiency in sharing that sensitive information. And, as a secure infrastructure that doesn’t sacrifice the ability of exchangeability of data, OPAL would be a potential tool providing:resolution of infrastructural matters, such as time and cost  to the analysis, storage and manipulation of health information; a better framework for precision medicine trials; the development of more comparative trials; a more cost-effective development of drugs; and the development of more effective treatments to patients.The proposal focuses on the OPAL system as a platform for the creation of accessible (yet confidential) databases of patient information at scale, and the ability to utilize information for expansive and nuanced adaptive clinical medical trials. However, it also notes that the system would, on an individual level, allow for a more holistic treatment of patients via a shared medical history.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
Healthureum Aims to Cut Healthcare Costs with Smart Contracts.Healthureum’s aims include these:To use the Ethereum blockchain and smart contracts to increase the interoperability and efficiency of healthcare services. To incorporate a token-based payment system, which will also be used to reward referrals and second opinions. To give patients ownership of and access to their medical data. To secure patient data cryptographically. To bring “S3” (standardization, scalability, and social responsibility) to healthcare services.Simplifying paymentThe most distinctive feature of Healthureum’s plan is the integration of payment tokens and healthcare information in the same system. WELL also uses tokens for payment between healthcare providers, but the token system is its primary focus.Healthureum aims at a strong set of healthcare information features as well as a payment system in a single blockchain. It aims at providing a “complete supporting ecosystem” for providers, not just a method of small-scale payments. A major aim of the token system is to facilitate cross-border services by making payment direct, avoiding international processing fees and currency conversions.The token is called the Healthureum, abbreviated HHEM. The HHEM will be the exclusive means of payment within the network. A Token Generation Event (TGE) ran in December 2017 to seed the system. It excluded a number of countries, among them the United States, Japan, and China.Making health data available and secureParticipating patients will have their personal, medical, and emergency data all stored in encrypted form on a single platform. Large data files, such as high-resolution images, would make the blockchain unmanageably large, so they will be stored elsewhere, with access through encrypted links.The system uses permission layers to control access, so that participants can read only the information that they’re authorized for. It promises instant access, so that the information is available in emergencies. Specialists will be allowed to see a subset of the patient’s data in order to provide a second opinion.Naturally, patients want to know that the people treating them and getting referrals are qualified. This can be an issue if they have a medical emergency in an unfamiliar place. Healthureum states that it will confirm that all providers in its network are legally qualified. The patient will be able to see a referred doctor’s credentials through the blockchain.Medical researchSome features of Healthureum aim at facilitating medical research. Patients who aren’t actively participating in medical trials can contribute their anonymized medical data. When they do this, they’re granting permission only for research purposes. Fraud in medical trials is a concern, since there can be financial incentives to make a treatment appear more successful than it was. Since the blockchain is safe against tampering, it guards against falsification of data.Future plansWhere is Healthureum going from here? In 2018, it plans to work with two pilot hospitals to implement and test its standardized data framework. It will test the alpha and beta versions of its data systematization application and gather data and credentials for doctors in the test program.After making any necessary fixes to the code and confirming regulatory compliance, the program will expand to five hospitals, adding the initial implementation of referrals and consultation. In 2019 it plans to add philanthropic activities and research programs.The biggest challenge which any healthcare blockchain faces is reaching a critical mass of adoption. To be useful to patients, it has to give them access to a large number of facilities and doctors. Healthureum is staking its hopes on the combination of flexible, secure information and a payment system in the same blockchain. If enough facilities adopt it, it could be a success.If you’re looking to learn more about blockchain developments for healthcare, contact us to become part of the conversation.
Healthbase Revolutionizes Healthcare Research Through Blockchain.
Hyperledger Pushes Forward Advancements in Healthcare.Hyperledger is an open source collaboration involving blockchain developers and big businesses. Hosted by The Linux Foundation, this growing community is pushing the boundaries of blockchain development with a wide range of projects. As you’ve no doubt gathered, blockchain apps are transforming the way in which we deal with data across a wide range of business sectors and the area of healthcare will no doubt benefit greatly from the current developments in this area.Why blockchain applications are a step forward for healthcare data managementThe move from traditional distributed database systems to blockchain distributed ledger systems will have far reaching effects that will benefit patients and medical professionals alike.DecentralizationWhen a user accesses a blockchain ledger, there is no obvious clue that the data is not centrally located. Blockchain gives the illusion of a centralized system, but in reality, the data is distributed across many different locations. This allows for greater collaboration, and all data is synchronized immediately. So a doctor, staff in a hospital, and the patient can all update the data held, yet no one individual can claim ownership of the overall system, be this the hospital or a third party intermediary. Therefore, there is no ultimate reliance on one single system. When all data is located in one place, a failure of that system can be catastrophic, especially in the healthcare business when there are literally lives at stake.A clear audit trail for accountabilityWhen using blockchain technology, an audit trail is created and cannot be manipulated. This makes it highly reliable. Additionally, a block can only be altered by the owner of that block, and so it is easy to find out with whom particular data originated, and who has changed it. Data can be validated, and so can be reused as a verified reliable source.Data is very secure and so privacy is assuredMedical records are highly sensitive. When a doctor records data regarding the condition of a patient, it is expected that the data is entirely confidential. While measures are always taken to protect such sensitive information, blockchain adds a very high level of security into the equation. All data is encrypted, and can only be decrypted when a user holds the private key to do so.The application of blockchain ledger technology within the industryIt’s not just the storage of patient records that can benefit from these new technologies. Blockchain developers for healthcare are working on many different aspects of the business to implement these technologies across a broad range of areas. For instance, insurance claim processing and research sectors. Insurance claims will be easier to audit, data will be more easily accessible by involved parties and fraud detection will be improved. Claims will therefore go through faster which of course will be of benefit to those who have put in a claim. With a higher level of fraud detection, the number of fraudulent claims will be reduced, and so policy prices could well fall. Data gathering for research will also improve, giving greater opportunities for study and advancement.
Luna DNA, a Blockchain-Funded Community Genomic Project.Enter Luna DNA, another interesting turn in the healthcare industry.What is Luna DNA?Luna DNA is “a genomic and medical research database powered by blockchain.” Luna DNA takes a community-based approach to gathering and sharing medical data. Traditional medicine often takes samples and other information while giving little back, a state of affairs heavily criticized for example in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, where despite having their mother’s cells used throughout modern medicine, the children and other relatives received nothing in return. While medical laws try to protect individuals from unwanted medical procedures and breaches of privacy, these laws can also act against the interests of people, giving no or little incentive to contribute their DNA and medical information. Luna DNA strives to undo this unbalance by giving community members Luna Coins, digital currency, in exchange for sharing their information. This give and take system then entitles recipients to receive assistance information in turn.Roots in Genomic ResearchLuna DNA has its roots in genomic research, where useful information often depends on a cross-section of samples. Without samples to compare, genomic research quickly becomes irrelevant, even impossible. CEO and Co-Founder Bob Kain and President and Co-Founder Dawn Barry both have roots in Illumina, a global genomics company working in everything from healthcare to agriculture. While working at Illumina and in other industry- positions, Barry and Kain saw firsthand the benefits of genomics together with the challenges facing researchers and consumers alike. They wanted to find some way to incentivize individuals to share their information, because the more information available, the better the research results. The better the research results, the more consumers should be able to expect in return. Thus, Luna DNA was born.Why Blockchain?Cryptocurrency like Bitcoin and Luna DNA’s Luna Coins represent a new way to hold and keep data secure. In the case of Luna Coins, the community invests, members of community hold their coins, and this information is available to all parties, keeping business transparent while keeping each individual member’s information secure. In many ways, a business like Luna DNA is a prime example of when and why cryptocurrency is so important. You want everyone (at least everyone in the community) to help guard your data, so that it will be impossible for someone to counterfeit or change what you have stored in your ledger. At the same time, you want the details including your ownership to be kept private via privileged encryption, so that not just anyone can see the details.Considering the stated aim of Luna DNA, to hold highly personal information in a shared database where everyone benefits in a mutually understood way, blockchain is the perfect technology partner for this mission. Luna DNA successfully raised $2 million dollars in ICO capital last year. On a practical level as well as a symbolic one, blockchain works for this business.Blockchain and the Future of HealthcareLooking ahead to the future of Luna DNA, of Luna Coins, and blockchain tech in general, one can see a trend developing, a trend toward decentralized funding and greater community involvement on all levels. As healthcare continues to become more consumer-driven, with secure medical records access online and on-demand, funding and investing will have to evolve keep up. Only time will tell, of course, but savvy companies and savvy investors will do well to pay attention these and other opportunities as they arise. Times are definitely changing.For more information about blockchain funding in the healthcare industry, contact us today.
Supply Chain and Blockchain: The Future of Pharmacy.The interest in Blockchain and distributed ledger technology (DLT)has exploded in recent years with a large focus on the financial industry. Meanwhile, medical and pharmaceutical companies around the world are looking to DLT as a means of solving, securing, and streamlining their businesses. While there are many applications for DLT within the medical industry, one area where the technology excels is within supply chains. With sales ranging from US$163 billion to $217 billion per year, according to industry estimates, counterfeit pharmaceuticals are the most lucrative sector of the global trade in illegally copied goods. Fraudulent drugs harm or kill millions around the world and inflict serious damage on the brand names and bottom lines of major pharmaceutical manufacturers.A blockchain based system could excel in the instance of protecting consumers against counterfeit pharmaceuticals by encoding a log that would detail each stop within the supply chain. In this instance, consumers would be able to check a digital archive in order to ensure the legitimacy of their medication. The distributed nature of the technology ensures that all actors within the pipeline are not making dubious changes to the log. The Drug Quality and Security Act (DSCSA) is a regulation that requires an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace prescription drugs distributed in the United States. This law was originally passed in 2013 but won’t take full effect until 2023. Other countries are implementing similar programs. All manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers of prescription drugs in the U.S. market are required to comply.Blockchain’s immutability and provenance capability provide the basis for tractability of drugs from manufacture to end consumer, identifying where the supply chain breaks down. With the DSCSA regulations looming companies like MediLedger Project and SimplyVital are leading the pack with their healthcare oriented blockchain technologies. MediLedger is a collaboration between Chronicled and The LinkLab, bringing together both pharmaceutical supply chain and blockchain technologies. Their intention is to advance the dialogue of a blockchain utility to enhance pharma companies’ ability to manage their supply chains.SimplyVital has developed two products for the healthcare industry, both of which address different aspects; ConnectingCare and Health Nexus. ConnectingCare is designed for healthcare providers, such as a hospital. The technology enables customers to streamline data to save time and money. According to Lucas Hendren (Simply Vital’s CTO),“It uses care coordination and financial forecasting to help providers in bundled payments get insight into what happens to patients when they leave the hospital. It is a strategic early use case for blockchain in healthcare because it uses blockchain as an immutable audit trail.” ConnectingCare has already hit with its minimal viable product.Health Nexus which is another blockchain protocol crafted by Simply Vital is assisting the medical industry and consumer in storing, distributing, and securing medical data. Not only that, but Health Nexus will allow individuals to sell their data to interested 3rd parties through a secure pipeline and marketplace. Blockchain protocols like Health Nexus are likely to play a large in medical research. These protocols will also tighten consumer feedback loops and potentially save lives.Blockchain has already made an impact in the medical industry, and it’s only looking to gain speed from here. Healthcare Rallies for Blockchain, a study from IBM, found that 56% of surveyed healthcare executives had solid plans to implement a commercial blockchain solution by 2020. As the abilities of machine learning and artificial intelligence further leak into the medical industry, the need for a blockchain solution will increase exponentially.
Securities Law Issues Around ICOs: An Interview with Jeferey A Bekiares, ESQ, Corporate Securities Lawyer.Jeff Bekiares is a founding partner of the technology firm, Founders Legal, with over 10 years of experience in corporate, capital-raising and securities law. Blockchain Healthcare Review Senior Editor Jennifer Georgino, a former corporate paralegal and legal manager, recently sat down with Jeff to talk about legal issues affecting the ICO and overall cryptocurrency space from the vantage point of an experienced corporate securities lawyer.Q: What are the current issues regarding SEC regulations and compliance around ICO’s, and any updates from your presentation a month ago which I attended on this subject?A: The BIG debate going on in the space right now: Are ICO’s going to be regulated by the SEC? Their pronouncements have pointed in the direction of yes, they are paying attention – Regardless of public or private, are tokens or coins being offered in fact a “security”, and are you registered with us, or have you run the proper tests to determine if you are exempt? They have in fact shut some ICOs already. This month the Chairman (SEC) announced that they are looking into the debate further with enforcement resources. No new rules or laws, but these are new policy announcements, so understand that if you are in the industry, you may get a phone call from them inquiring. He also stated they are looking at the Exchanges. The SEC is asking:  Exchanges: If you are facilitating liquidity in token/coins, explain why you should not be registered with us as a securities exchange? Finally, new laws will be a while coming, and regulations will be at least a year from now out of Congress, but these policy guidelines stand now.Q: Is it in the purview of the SEC to chase those who already launched ICOs in 2017, whilst we had little, if any, guidance from the SEC?A: In theory, it is in their jurisdiction, but one doubts they would, as there was little clear guidance at the time. In my experience, as a regulatory agency the SEC has a mandate to ensure capital-raising is safe and efficient. ICOs are here to stay. Once the SEC gets their arms around it, ICO’s will be more difficult to do, and the excitement will calm down. This will be a good thing,, as those doing ICOs will be more serious about it.Q: Utility token v Security being offered to general public? Please define/clarify for us.A: This is an important distinction. A utility token is designed for a “useful purpose” with respect to the business operation going forward. However, the SEC doesn’t care what you call it. They will make their decision based on “substance over form”. If the understanding is that the token will increase in value as an investment, it can then be defined as a “security”. It will need to be registered in order to offer it to the public at large OR, if determined to be exempt from registration, it will utilize the typical capital-raising exemptions options available to privately raise capital in the past.Q: Why would a startup look at the ICO path versus F&F, a public IPO, VCs, etc.?A: Historically, those in the ICO space raising capital in the past could have seen it as an easy means to avoid the SEC quagmire or analysis, and even perfect an exemption. And with no official guidance to the contrary, they were not necessarily doing anything willfully illegal, as it did not appear to be a “security” per se. Obviously, going forward, that logic is no longer valid. By raising capital via an IPO, you are definitively giving up control and ownership of your company. Rather, with an ICO, even if categorized as a security, you are not giving up leverage in your company necessarily, depending on the terms. The buyers are not typically shareholders for instance, though some rules of recent ICO’s have given token-holders certain voting powers. Another reason to prefer an ICO is to get the tokens in circulation in your marketplace/ecosystem. The point of doing a pre-ICO sale and issuing the tokens subsequently, using the underlying blockchain technology, with a valid use case, is to have some future usefulness for them, otherwise they are simply shares of stock.Q: Speaking of an ICO, tell us the importance of the Disclosure documentation?A: The primary purpose of Securities law is to protect investors from fraud, period – in fairness, and that which is disclosed to investors should be in compliance.  Let me suggest three fundamentals for a Disclosure document vis-à-vis potential token buyers;Q: With regard to IP value and protections, most startups have patents “pending” for years. Is there any protection in patents pending?A:  Half of our firm handles patent prosecutions, searches, etc. Though I am a corporate securities lawyer. I will state, however, underlying technology protection is vitally important as THE “value” of a startup in the technology development space; not simply in the US, but forging protections abroad as well. File the applications as soon as possible! It can be pricey and take years, but once securing your place in line, you also secure the value to a large extent. The IP lawyers in our firm will discuss the likelihood of getting your patent approved or not to confirm there is potential value, and that it is a worthwhile endeavor.Q: Talk to me about Smart Contracts utilized in blockchains, and how transactions will be traced, if for the better as a result. Obviously, some attorneys are fearful of the model.A: Smart Contracts will make a huge difference in the legal industry and in society in the broader universe. I am very bullish on smart contracts! In its simplest terms, a smart contract is a set of digital rules that are encoded, which essentially states, if X happens, then Y will happen. The parties that enter into the agreement cannot change it, unless they agree it can be changed in the rules, and how. In its simplest terms, as long as goods are confirmed received on the blockchain, the payment is made automatically. It is a self-executing agreement in a trust-less environment. Each party has access to amend, IF all parties are in agreement. It codifies what is in a heretofore written agreement or what has been agreed to verbally.Q: Can you address the issues of privacy and security in a blockchain environment, as we are addressing primarily the healthcare market, and therefore private blockchains?A: In its best and purest form, blockchains and crypto currencies are very secure and private. In healthcare, blockchain technology can provide the anonymity required. Transactions can be publicly verified against the ledger, but cannot be privately traced, albeit nefarious activities will always be attempted. There are already digital medical records in the majority of healthcare environments that make it currently far more secure than it has been, so the trend for more secure privacy with blockchain added will continue.Q:  Does anyone have recourse with a number to call at the SEC around problems with the Exchanges, etc.?A: The Investor Protection and Enforcement Division at the SEC would love to hear your complaints, and are monitoring consumer complaints. Though they cannot reverse a blockchain transaction, they have a lot of tools to utilize regarding possible criminal actions in their toolbox.Q: What advice would you give healthcare organizations with regard to ransomware Issues?A: Don’t ignore securing your data BEFORE a threat comes! With the retention of patient medical records, you have a huge “bulls eye” on your back from a lot of different arenas. This data is incredibly valuable. Information security is not an area where you can cut the budget. In addition, all operating systems must be kept updated. You are responsible for your systems being updated with critical patches.Q: What is going on with GDPR around privacy in Europe?A: Any company with a SAAS product who does business in Europe is having to update their contracts, and we have clients doing that currently. It involves having data compliance in place for data privacy laws in Europe.Q: Tell me about tax implications in the ICO world?A: When raising capital through crowdfunding of some kind, and taking in cash, it is considered “ordinary income”, and taxed accordingly i.e. the sale of an item. If you are raising money through the sale of stock, that is not taxable income to the business or partners. In ICOs, however, we do NOT know yet! If it is a utility token, it can look like crowdfunding, but if a security, it perhaps sounds like owners’ equity and is paid back to the business. Of course crypto is treated like personal property, an asset, but again, the definitions can be confusing depending on the regulatory body. We will know more once 2017 tax filing season hits soon.Q: Finally, DIY v Legal Assistance?A:. If there are any questions around the issues we have discussed, the first thing you should do is talk to a competent attorney in the space. And they should not charge you until you come to an agreement that they are going to charge you. I am a practical lawyer and keep client resources in mind when advising clients. The first hallmark of a good, ethical lawyer is for them to say to you; Here is what I think your issues are, here is what I believe you should address right away and here is what you can put off until later, and the average cost of this is -blank-. This simple, brief “consult” should be free in my opinion. I do no push clients to do more at that moment than is required. Of course up front we would need to prepare your organizational documents, partner agreements, shareholder agreements, and the business deal documented, etc., but until you have your business plan in place, a go-to-market strategy, your capital raising program, a targeted audience and are ready, I will not draft your pre-ICO agreements.Jeff is speaking this week at the TI:GER Innovation Center’s Blockchain event at Emory law school.
Curisium Raises Millions for Blockchain-based Healthcare Contract Platform.A new approach to outcomes-based healthcare contractsAt the core of the Curisium offering is an end-to-end solution centered around patient-level data and focused on value-based care.From patient populations to individual patientsWhile other outcomes-based healthcare contract platforms only address patient population data, Curisium addresses individual patient data. The company argues that their move to more granular, patient-level data gives their platform superior flexibility. When patient population data is needed, it can be easily aggregated from the patient-level data.From event data to patient-state dataThe Curisium team also maintains that their approach departs from another common tenant of legacy platforms: the focus on event-based data. According to Curisium, the focus among legacy systems on healthcare events generates sparse datasets that lead to relatively unreliable, opaque automated contracts. By contrast, Curisium’s health state-based approach leads to reliable, rich datasets well-suited for automated contracts and new insights.The issue of trustThe blockchain-based Curisium platform addresses the issue of trust directly. Outcomes-based healthcare data is generally locked away in separate silos owned by separate payers, providers and life sciences organizations. Unsurprisingly, previous outcomes-based contract platforms have struggled with the delicate task of convincing the various data-silo owners to trust eachother enough to share and aggregate their highly sensitive and heavily regulated data. However, according to Curisium, their platform provides “cryptographic guarantees” that reassure payers, providers and life science organizations that their shared data will remain secure. Furthermore, Curisium’s blockchain-based platform inherently provides an immutable record of all transactions, creating a built-in audit trail that facilitates verification and dispute resolution.Payment logisticsAccording to the Curisium team, legacy systems have had difficulty efficiently processing outcomes-based contracts. However, the Curisium platform has payment processing built in at a foundational level, leading to inherently efficient and affordable payment automation.The teamThe Curisium team is led by co-founders Peter Kim, CEO, and Francis Lam, CTO, both formerly of Aetion, a provider of evidential data supporting value-based healthcare solutions.Kim is the former VP of Engineering at Aetion, where he led the engineering and product teams to build their leading analytics platform running on “real-world evidence (RWE).” As co-founder of Curisium, Kim saw an opportunity to address the “costly logistics, lack of trust, and difficulty verifying patient-level outcomes” faced by healthcare and life sciences organizations limited by legacy payment platforms.Lam was VP of Data Science at Aetion, where he “pioneered the use of patient states” to greatly increase platform efficiency.FundingFive firms are contributing to Curisium’s $3.5M seed investment round: New Enterprise Associates, Shuttle Fund, Flare Capital Partners, Green Bay Ventures and Sanofi Ventures. Two investors will join the Curisium’s Board of Directors: Mohamad Makhzoumi of New Enterprise Associates, and Bill Geary of Flare Capital. In Curisium’s press release, Geary argues that Curisium “has the potential to rapidly accelerate the breadth and depth of innovative contracting arrangements” by virtue of its patient-level outcome verification and automated-payment capabilities.For more information on healthcare startups leveraging the blockchain, contact us.
Robomed – Blockchain powered medical care using smart contracts.Blockchain has become one of the most important technologies in the world for more secure communication, and the healthcare field continues to benefit. You’re seeing more and more companies delving into blockchain technology to offer better healthcare services for patients.A standout is Robomed, a virtual medical network that offers smart contracts for patients and managed by a blockchain token. It’s an innovative system allowing better ways for patients to interact with medical facilities on sharing medical information and in paying bills. Patient-centered medical networks like this are still new to the marketplace. Yet, they’re about to snowball once Robomed proves its worth.Take a look at how Robomed’s process works and what it means for smart contract use in healthcare.Using the Robomed EHRAny medical facility in the Robomed network has access to their EHR platform that allows for unified storage of medical data and health management tools. It’s a unique integration not available widely yet.As a way to provide a single information space, it helps eliminate the old middleman concepts of standard medical networks. Patients and medical facilities have long had to endure too much bureaucracy, leading to delays in immediate communication. Plus, with standard networks, security still isn’t assured in a time when hacking occurs nearly every day.Through the Robomed EHR, the blockchain technology they use allows for a smart contract with patients, something possible using their own token.What Kind of Token Does Robomed Use?Known as the RBM token, this ethereum cryptocurrency gives a lot more freedom and security in transactions between patients and medical facilities. The benefit of using a smart contract like this is it gives freedom to vote on medical service value. This helps considerably in providing quality medical care to those in other countries who perhaps can’t afford certain services.Keep in mind that if you join Robomed, you have to agree to use the RBM token as payment to medical facilities in the network. They’re easy to use, though, and the pre-sale starts on October 25th. The ICO runs from November 1st through the 30th.In total, they’re releasing 1,675,000,000 RBM tokens with a final release date on November 31.All the funds received from these tokens are going to go toward developing and improving a smart ecosystem smart contract.Using the Smart Contract in the Robomed EHRThanks to blockchain technology bringing more transparency to communication and transactions, it opens a lot of new possibilities through Robomed’s EHR platform.It now offers the ability to provide a digital patient chart both parties can easily access without worry of hacking. It’s also possible to keep a transparent schedule for specialists, plus real-time monitoring of all personnel actions. Better tracking of staff salaries is possible here, proving the worth of smart contracts.Most importantly, it opens a private network for medical staff to make smart decisions without fear of data being compromised.Other Digital Uses for RobomedOnce you start using the Robomed platform, you’ll be able to use it for telemedicine technology, giving your patients more confidence in providing personal information. Analytics are available to see how effective medical facility advertising is.Additionally, they offer a mobile version of the platform, as well as one for the web. Through the mobile edition, it’s possible to provide even more convenience with telemedicine consultations. It’s also easy for patients to do scheduling without having to call in on busy phone lines. All patients can control who sees their medical information, and vice versa.As Robomed advances, we expect to see this imitated everywhere soon in the healthcare industry.Contact us at Block Chain Healthcare Review as we review more healthcare companies providing blockchain technologies for transparent smart contract use.
Umbrella Coin – Automating Insurance Payouts with Smart Contracts.The market for alternative coins has been growing at a dizzying rate. Many ICOs (Initial Coin Offerings) now raise tens of millions or even hundreds of millions of dollar equivalent value in their tokens. Healthcare is one area where blockchain technology is seeing major ICO growth.Umbrella Coin has produced a coin called UMC which is built on the Ethereum protocol. It’s goal is to become a major healthcare company based on the block chain technology rather than traditional financial structures.Umbrella Coin can reduce costUmbrella Coin has several revolutionary innovations that no health care company on the market can match. The first innovation is that the claims process is governed by the universe of other Umbrella Coin owners. They vote through the Ethereum protocol on whether any claim should be paid out or not. They are interested in a sound system that is fair and can grow, not necessarily in the most profitable system.This radically changes the traditional model of claims payments. Under the current methodology, health insurance companies have an extremely detailed checklist of approved treatments and pharmaceuticals for each diagnoses. They have a bureaucratic structure with lawyers, claims management professionals and very few doctors to overseas the claims process. The people making the decisions are not doing it in the interest of patients but rather for the bottom line.The second huge innovation is the cost structure. Under the legacy bloated system results in many good claims that are rejected and many wasted costs. Additionally, the health insurance companies spend millions in sales and marketing to acquire new customers. This ultimately needs to be made up by raising premiums for current customers. Overall, prices continue to dramatically rise in this system.Under the Umbrella Coin system, this all changes. Since there is no costly claims process, no bureaucracy, no million dollar marketing campaign and no expensive overhead, claims can be far more generous for less costly. They can dramatically reduce costs and be more efficient.StructureThe overall structure is a little complex but makes the entire system extremely coherent. A new client first takes some of the Umbrella Coin from their wallet and devotes it to a “Float” pool. That allows the client to be covered under the health plan. After a small lock-out period, there is a maturation period under which they are covered by the plan. As time passes and no claims are required, some of the funds may be withdrawn with a small penalty. At the end of a contract period, there is no more penalty at all.If a claim is made during the maturation period, the community decides on the validity of the claim. If it is approved, the Coins are withdrawn from the Float and distributed to the individual. If the claim is rejected, no Coins are disbursed.TeamUmbrella Coin also has the team and background to execute on the vision they have outlined. They have a number of software developers from the largest software and insurance companies in the world. They have decades of experience in software development and education from some of the finest engineering and computer science programs. Additionally, Umbrella Coin has already started to build out its sales and marketing team to promote the use of the product.Blockchain Health Care Review is a leading hub of information about companies, technology and innovations around health care tech using the blockchain. Many people, companies and institutions have already formed tight partnerships through the site. For more information, please contact us.
MedCredits and Hippocrates: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using Blockchain.Blockchain technology seeks to connect patients with doctors on a decentralized platform to help reduce healthcare costs associated with office visits and middlemen. Several tech startups are racing to cross the finish line! One such, MedCredits, claims they’re the first blockchain powered platform that connects providers to patients worldwide on a decentralized network. Many in the industry anxiously await the announcement or launch date for token sale, and MedX token price. To receive the blue ribbon that label’s them as the first company to successfully integrate blockchain technology and smart contracts into current healthcare designs would give them a proverbial leg up on the competition.MedCredits: Diagnostic Telemedicine Using BlockchainSimilar to other telemedicine startups, MedCredits desires to improve healthcare access and reduce rising healthcare costs. Developers believe trying to create a decentralized electronic medical record (EMR) is too difficult of a task to tackle all at one time, and rather approach implementation organically, growing the platform overtime by targeting medical specialities and slowly releasing software updates.Instead of dismantling an entire electronic system and re-training workers, MedCredit team members are approaching blockchain-based telemedicine through integrating technology into readily accessible medical specialities, like Dermatology, to serve as a foundation for later application into other fields.Dermatology is one of several specialities transforming the healthcare market by approaching it as a borderless, decentralized network. Diagnoses are largely based upon subjective descriptions and examination of skin, which Dermatologists agree can safely be accomplished with photographs and clear patient descriptions via smartphones.How It WorksMedCredits, built from the OpenBazzar code-based system, is working to seamlessly integrate Hippocrates, a user-friendly app connecting Dermatologists with their patients, on the MedCreditsplatform. OpenBazzar is a decentralized peer-to-peer sharing platform for goods and information. Hippocrates is a user-friendly app on the MedCredits platform, where providers and patients meet to discuss their skin concerns.Global Network ~ Borderless access to Dermatologists! MedCredits‘ goal is to globalize medicine!  Instant Connection ~ Hippocrates is a user-friendly application, prompting patients through each step to submit cases, receive diagnosis and hear treatment recommendations with the touch of a button.  Payment ~ Patients pay using MEDX, or ERC20 tokens, secured on Ethereum blockchain and regulated by self-executing smart contracts to track the automated transactions. Diagnosis ~ After successful transaction, patients receive diagnosis and recommendations from licensed medical professionals without ever having to leave their environment!AdvantagesMedCredits opens up hospital doors globally, providing borderless patient access to physicians, assisting to remove geographical barriers to clinics, and improving health outcomes worldwide. Overtime, MedCredits hopes to extend its reach to other medical specialities, such as Cardiology and Neurology, to interconnect EMR with other departments and hopefully global systems.Allows for physicians to access demographics who have limited mobility or means to attend regular appointments. Records are available through secured access, giving patients the keys for their health! Patients are given access to healthcare professionals for diagnosis, referral or treatment anywhere, at anytime!DisadvantagesResearch reveals that people spend over 90% of their free time on applications, though this doesn’t necessarily mean we should encourage it. Incentivizing patients through leaving star ratings, may impact an insurance company’s decision to provide coverage or include clinics in their network. This has possible ramifications on who is able to receive treatments locally, or be made to rely on smart technologies alone.People as LinksIt’s undeniable that aspects of telemedicine and blockchain technology help to streamline healthcare processes. Studies may show that more people are comfortable interacting through a screen. Admittedly, it’s difficult to untangle persons with technology, as one will often times support the other. Companies like MedCredits make telemedicine possible, and with some more research, can hopefully help us drive our health forward into the future!Blockchain Healthcare Review is the leading media hub for information blockchain technology innovation in the healthcare space, providing enthusiasts, analysts, investors and subject matter experts alike unbiased analysis, reporting and consulting engagements focused on the emerging distributed technology healthcare space.
iSolve – Innovation for the Drug Supply Chain.Blockchain technology began its innovative life in the cryptocurrency market segment. It moved quickly to disrupt other market segments  — representing many processes — who find it relevant to their security needs. And what is in greater need of chain of custody security than the drug supply chain? iSolve shows an innovative way forward for the drug supply chain using blockchain technology.End-to-end Drug Supply Chain Solution Using BlockchainInformation about the drug supply chain posts securely to the blockchain. Blockchain technology provides a way to trace drug movement from one trusted drug supply chain partner to another. The use of blockchain technology in the drug supply chain:makes auditing easier and more accurate; makes the drug supply chain transparent for Biopharma companies who want to see the distribution patterns of their medical products; applies in the $800 billion global pharma market; integrates existing systems and processes; and prevents counterfeit medications from entering the supply chain.Advanced Digital Ledger Technology (ADLT)iSolve developed ADLT to provide security in the drug supply chain. It accomplishes this by preventing counterfeit drugs from entering the supply but beyond that it provides:prompt secure communications between drug supply chain partners,  improved inventory control and management, improved medication recall procedures and processes, and global regulatory compliance.ADLT works toward structural soundness of the drug supply chain with respect to the needs of Pharma, vendors in the supply chain — and, of course, patients.BlockRXThis is iSolve’s platform (combining Blockchain technology and iSolve’s ADLT), designed to improve patient outcomes by integrating the work of life science researchers, BioPharma companies, medical device makers, medical equipment retailers, and health care providers. The BlockRX Ecosystem for BioPharma creates new revenue streams and manages costs. It changes the way BioPharma companies, health care providers and patients interact with each other. BlockRx also provides secure access to data.The BlockRX digital tokens that support life sciences go on sale September 21st.The Smart MarketplaceBioPharma Tech Transfer Offices and service providers can enter The Smart Marketplace to take advantage of the Smart IP, Smart Services, and Smart Investment components. They can search intellectual property (IP) postings from around the world to help them build their own supply channels or locate new technologies that help them develop their drug enterprises.BioPharma companies can connect with investors that are a good match for them at their particular stage of development.Tech Transfer Offices, service providers and investors who take advantage of the Smart Marketplace gain exposure to more clients, identify needs that exist in the marketplace and track the companies that need the type of expertise and special services that they can provide.Blockchain Project Portfolio Management (BPPM)BPPM tracks tasks/deliverables, organizes, and schedules projects that BioPharma companies enter into the Blockchain for Smart IP, Smart Investment, and Smart Services. BPPM helps identify and manage projects without burdening the BioPharma companies with more administrative tasks.BPPM automatically posts the updated plan via an email response system as work completes.Investors can see at what stage the BioPharma company project reached at any given point in time. Investors can also see the milestones completed as required for initial or additional funding stages.All activities of Tech Transfer Offices, Service Providers, Investors and BioPharma companies post to the Blockchain in a portfolio. iSolve analyses and posts metrics about the activities which helps organizations when they search for possible partners.To learn more about iSolve’s solutions to fundamentally change drug development by interconnecting systems that do not communicate well with each other and to establish data provenance, read the blockrx.com white paper.
BurstIQ – Blockchain Platform for Securing, Analyzing and Monetizing all of your PHI.With the integration of blockchain technology into healthcare well underway, B2C blockchain based startups are focusing intently on developing tools that facilitate ownership and provenance of personal health information (PHI). In this space, prevention is the name of the game, and there is no better way to prevent illness than precisely knowing what makes you, well, you.Colorado based BurstIQ “has solved two fundamental challenges that have, until now, prevented blockchain from being utilized in the healthcare space: support for large volumes of data and ensuring security of the underlying data.” The ecosystem includes an intuitive and easy to understand consumer facing product called Lifegraph, where a participant can consolidate all PHI and share what you want with who you want all the while delivering personalized wellness plans. What makes BurstIQ stand out is their marketplace, where you as an individual can license, sell, loan or even donate your PHI to established research networks on the other end. This kind of dedication to active matchmaking is a key incentive for consumer participation.Monetize Health Data on the BurstIQ MarketplaceBurstIQ is personalizing the next generation of healthcare by converging multiple technological sources of your health information into one singular place: The Health Singularity. BurstIQ is the marketplace and your data is the currency. How does tech like this presumably work?BurstIQ Goals:Improve Patient Satisfaction Improve Quality of Care & Outcomes Increase Market Shares Reduce Excessive Costs Build Brands That Shake Hands Target Research to Save on Costs & TimeThe BurstIQ marketplace is where individuals and businesses or research institutes can freely collaborate, reaching agreements together with the assistance from artificial intelligence. Engagements in the marketplace are supported by BurtIQ’s Healthwallet, which powers PHI data governance, compliance, security and permission rules. Other platform services include BurstChain, which is the backbone for rights management functionalities as well as managing consent contracts to permit access to patient-sensitive information, and LifeGraph. LifeGraph is able to cross-examine and manage information from multiple sources to create a road map of your health-data throughout a lifespan.Elements of the New Health Ecosystem:A.I. systems provide more precise insights about your health habits, and which ones are positively (and negatively) impacting long-term care results. Use remote patient monitoring and targeted testing, as well as immediate access to Physicians through telehealth consults. It’s your Virtual Clinic! Consumer focused health plans act to tailor wellness needs based upon home tests made available to participants Sensitive patient information is securely stored in personalized digital HealthWallets. Through the HealthWallet, your health metrics as defined by your LifeGraph determines the care you receive. For example: Primary Care Physicians can write and approve your prescription in exchange for BiQ tokens.BurstIQ is a beacon for blockchain HIT innovation that not only supports owning your PHI, but also having the tools to learn from it, which can be tremendously helpful when deciding what you want to do with it.Unquestionably, using blockchain technology to help gather and store patient data in one place improves treatment accuracy and redundant administrative costs. What remains to be seen from B2C blockchain HIT startups is the network effect of having the security, collaboration and incentive motivation to share PHI. In practice, it can help improve the accuracy and cost of clinical research, which could trickle down to affecting drug prices. The first litmus test though for this innovation fork in healthcare’s timeline is to what degree does all this technology will make any given citizen more accountable and engaged with their data.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
Female Blockchain Entrepreneurship in Healthcare.Women Entrepreneurs Focused on Solving Healthcare with BlockchainBlockchain is a technology that is open to all. It does not discriminate based on age or gender and is built around mathematical concepts and technology. It is behind the rise of crypto-currency tokens, which are the lifeblood of monetizing blockchain innovation. The industry young, and many new companies and founders with great ideas are entering and making a large impact. For that reason, many female founders are having a big impact on the blockchain industry by founding new companies and driving new ventures.Kat Kuzmeskas – CEO, SimplyVital HealthSimplyVital Health is a company that has a large impact on the budding blockchain healthcare sector. It is focused on data portability, tracking and analysis of healthcare data. It is already making a huge impact that is easy to use and that naturally integrates with legacy systems.Kat Kuzmeskas is one of the founders of SimplyVital Health. This impressive founder has a deep background in the health industry including working at the Yale New Haven Health System and earning a Masters in Public Health. Kuzmeskas understood the issues that small health providers face and how data portability could help them save time, costs and improve patient care. She then teamed up with co-founder and CTO Lucas Hendren to create the SimplyVital Health Solution.SimplyVital Health is a giant leap forward on the ability of companies, institutions and healthcare providers to track and manage patient information with 100% security. Of course, patient data must be kept private and secure according to HIPAA regulations. Fortunately, the blockchain ledger allows for a mathematical solution that prevents fraud and allows all exchanges of information to be pre-verified.The solution tracks each step that patients go through, from the symptoms they have to the time they enter their first provider to all of the care, procedures and medications they receive. This is important for several reasons. First of all, it records the interventions in a clear and easy to use system that should indicate to other medical providers what has worked and what is not working.  That helps later diagnoses.Secondly, it ensures that the interventions were done according to a medically determined standard of care. That means that insurance companies will have no way to deny claims of unnecessary procedures or excessive medications. Providers love this because it means they get paid faster and have full verification in case of any disputes.Thirdly, it creates a way for the government or the hospital to do a quick audit of a patient or patient’s records to see that all of the proper compliance standards are being followed. Audits are much quicker and less expensive. That is better for the government and the institution itself. Plus any changes in procedure may be easily programmed into the legacy system to guide providers in the future.SimplyVital Health was also built to integrate painlessly with legacy IT systems. That means providers will not need a long training period or expensive implementation costs. As SimplyVital Health continues to add more features and functions, more and more institutions are adopting the technology.Elaine Comeau- CEO PointNurseAnother company to look out for in the female led healthcare blockchain startup community is PointNurse. It is run Elaine Comeau who herself is a registered nurse. The firm helps home nurses to log their care, hours and interventions on the blockchain. This provides tremendous convenience and security. In addition to advocating for “out-of-hospital blockchains”, PointNurse envisions a “decentralized autonomous nursing organization” or “DANO,” that will make full of use of blockchain to disrupt and transform the multi-billion dollar nurse-staffing industry. This seed stage start-up is a player to watch in the future.Chrissa McFarlane- CEO, PatientoryLastly, a discussion in women driven blockchain entrepreneurship can not be complete without mentioning the recent, and ongoing success, of Chrissa McFarlane, CEO of Patientory. With a recent issuance of their ICO, Patientory secured $7.2 million in funding by making their token (PTOY) available to the public for purchase. The platform is designed to transfer tokens—PTOY—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patient.Where to buy PTOYIf you missed the Patientory ICO, not to worry. You can still purchase tokens on exchanges such as Liqui.The Patientory platform makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology and decentralizes data so that it distributed and HIPAA compliant. Patientory also has deployed a mobile app enables users to store, view and track their healthcare data using HIPAA-compliant blockchain technology.Blockchain Healthcare Review regularly consults with investors, advises blockchain startups and produces research for key decision makers in the healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical and biomedical engineering lines of business. For more information, please contact us.
BitJob Brings Blockchain to the Student Workforce Using Smart Contracts.It’s always interesting to shine a spotlight on startups that are doing something extraordinary to disrupt business as usual. Today’s post draws your attention to one such Startup Review: BitJob. At its heart, BitJob is a special kind of social network. BitJob is an important innovation for students, designed to help them earn money while they gain valuable work experience that will prove useful when they look for a permanent job.BitJob Brings Blockchain Technology to the Student WorkforceBitJob takes the idea behind the popular freelancer job boards — where job seekers bid on jobs — and focuses them toward micro-gigs. To do this, BitJob uses Blockchain technology to form a platform where employers and students collaborate to the advantage of both in Peer to Peer (P2P) networking. We think of it as concentrating the freelance workforce on “no job too small” platforms.How do student workers get paid?BitJob has two ways for employers to pay their student workers. They can use traditional, centralized payment methods, otherwise known as government legal tender. Or they can use cryptocurrency (think bitcoin), which is a decentralized payment platform (not government issued legal tender). BitJob’s cryptocurrency will be called : STU , The official STU crowdsale will begin on September 12th, while early birds can start contribute to this project at the exclusive pre-sale event, starting August 2nd. (Contact the team for more details).How do BitJob’s team are going to attract students to Join the platform?BitJob’s foundation is launching an affiliate marketing plan for spreading the word around the world, In order to reach as many students as possible, The team has came up with a wonderful reward program that will provide their partners with referee rewards and future dividends of every student they will bring into the platform, This way more & more Unions and councils can assist in bitJob’s vision of a global Students employment platform.How do employers and employees agree on the terms of the arrangement?No lawyers for these engagements. BitJob uses Smart Contracts for the work. Smart Contracts are a creature of Blockchain technology and, in this instance, supported by Ethereum Blockchain’s smart contract functionality.Smart Contracts are agreements created by a computer platform. The terms of the Smart Contract memorialize the negotiations between the buyers and sellers but instead of reducing those particulars to a traditional writing, encodes the terms, “written” as it were in lines of code.The contracts reside in the Blockchain network which preserves and distributes the information. The parties to the contracts remain anonymous. There is no legal system nor any enforcement entity needed. The contracts are “traceable, transparent, and irreversible”, according to Investopedia.com.BitJob PartnersSome solid companies have joined in partnership with this innovative platform. They include the Dutch Government’s Blockchain Projects, The Netherland’s Government, Blockchain Association of Canada (BAC), QBRICS, Blockchain Education Network, Cambridge Blockchain, Infolab, University of Florida Gator Bitcoin Club, and Blockchain Healthcare Review, just to name a few.From the Perspective of the Healthcare IndustryHow can the healthcare industry piggyback on this peer-to-peer model? Antiquated best describes our medical records process today. Many of the larger hospitals have graduated to electronic health records but individual doctors, especially in rural areas, have not converted. Their medical records are still filled by paper which makes it very hard to search.What we need is a way to connect the health records of our personal physicians to the health records in the hospital and to our lab results, and so on. Even the information currently stored on computers is not connected to other computers that have additional health information. Added to that, the individual servers that hold the medical information are easy for hackers to break.Blockchain technology holds out a potential solution to these connectivity issues. Just suppose, the modern medical record system encrypted an individual’s medical records and stored them on a peer-to-peer network. In much the same way that Blockchain currently stores financial information, or the way BitJob stores potential jobs, Blockchain technology can also store medical records.Once an individual designates a hospital or physician who then can access the system, all those disparate pieces of medical information come together. Such a system saves on paperwork and repetitive manual data input. Entering information only needs to happen one time because it is then shared among all people who have access to the medical records. And the individual controls how much information from his medical records he wants to give each medical provider.The U. S. Department of Health and Human Services is so interested in applying this technology to health care that it is reaching out to Blockchain technology experts to explain how it would work in a healthcare setting. In addition, MIT researchers created a prototype where they entered patient data such as prescriptions, medical history, and so on into a Blockchain platform. Then, they experimented to see if specific physicians could access the data. It worked well so now the prototype will expand to hospital networks to see how well it works in that setting.If you want to learn more about Blockchain in healthcare and its implications, read the marketplace.org article entitled “Using bitcoin’s technology to wrangle widespread medical records” which was an inspiration for this post.To talk more about how blockchain can impact your business, please contact us. We look forward to helping you understand Blockchain technology.————————————————————-For More details about bitJob – Please visit their site at: www.bitJob.ioContact : Dror Medalion, CEO   |   Email: Dror@bitJob.io
IEEE Pharma Supply Blockchain Forum: Improving the Pharmacy Supply Chain.When it comes to Blockchain, the big question today is how to put it to work for you. We keep our eyes peeled each year for events that will interest you in this area — and we believe this year’s Pharma Supply Block Chain Forum fits the bill. So read on for highlights from this Event review – Pharma Conference.The Pharma Supply Block Chain ForumThis event was held on June 6, 2017 at the Johns Hopkins University Montgomery County Campus in Rockville, Maryland. It was an information packed, one-day, educational program about Blockchain technology and its uses with respect to the Pharma supply chain. This was not just a one-off event. It was the first in a series of events whose goal is to promote Blockchain technology in the pharmaceutical sector.Who were the speakers?This forum was impressive for the breadth and depth of experience of its presenters. The forum included regulators, representatives from the academic world as well as industry and technology experts. Speakers included representatives from the following companies:Amgen Blockchain Healthcare Review Chain Business Insights Health Linkages IBM Life Sciences Peer Ledger PharmTech SafeBio Pharma Steptoe & Johnson, LLP IEEE Spectrum T-Systems AmericaThe Pharma Supply Block Chain Forum spread wide its audience netFrom Vice Presidents, senior directors and managers, to benefit managers and hospital staff, as well as government regulators, students and researchers  — the content added value to all attendees. The industries most affected were those in the manufacturing end of the pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences as well as wholesalers, hospitals, and technology vendors.What topics did the Forum cover? Forum presenters expressed their views on the following:Improving the drug supply chain from manufacturers to patient, including the opportunities for collaboration from IOT, AI, Blockchain, DLT’s just to name a few Increasing revenue from data in the Blockchain Digital identity concerns in the drug supply chain Working better with trusted partners Understanding what the regulators have to say about the drug supply chain Smart contracts Management and security of data Integrity of the supply chainThe keynote address, for example, asked the question whether Blockchain is the right fit for Pharma’s supply chain. Other speaker topics ranged from a food safety case study to the smart way to do smart contracts. The Digital Identity issue inherent in using Blockchain for Pharma included tips on using a double layer framework to secure both the product supply chain and with respect to patient information.Another presentation reviewed the contenders for the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (DSCSA) track and trace program, a program intended to help the pharmaceutical industry comply with the Act. DSCSA imposed new requirements on manufacturers, repackagers, drug dispensers, pharmaceutical wholesalers, and their trading partners. The new rules with respect to standards of practice and product tracing phase in over the next six years which made this a particularly appropriate topic for this Blockchain Forum.IEEE areas of pharmacy and supply chain interestSupply chain operations and IT. With respect to supply operations, the Forum aimed at those with an interest in:Distribution Management Partnership development Quality Control Compliance Finance SecurityOn the IT side, the Forum impacted those whose work touches:Big Data Data governance Cloud management Data architecture in Enterprise corporations Information security Data engineering Tech innovationsPerhaps the most impressive thing about this list is that it is not exhaustive. And, as this was only the first in a series of forum events, expectations for the entire series run high.To talk more about this topic, or anything else, please contact us. We look forward to answering all your questions about Blockchain and its impact on the Pharma supply chain.
DokChain by PokitDok – Blockchain for Healthcare.PokitDok, a healthcare software platform provider, has recently introduced a new offering: DokChain, “blockchain for healthcare.” PokitDok envisions DokChain helping usher in a new era of value-based care handled (in the background) primarily by artificial intelligence (AI), rather than Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). This new breed of AI, in the form of “smart contracts,” will reside on DokChain, the company’s secure blockchain-based network. PokitDok’s expanding set of APIs will, in turn, connect all healthcare participants to the AI-rich DokChain and to each other. An impressive initial group of leading technology and healthcare partners, collectively the “DokChain Health Alliance,” has already signed on to lead the effort. And parent PokitDok’s $5M round of funding in March will certainly help fuel DokChain’s development for the remainder of 2017.The vision of DokChainDokChain made its formal debut on September 27th, 2016 at the Health 2.0 conference in Santa Clara, California. According to PokitDok Co-founder and CEO Lisa Maki, the introduction of blockchain in general (and DokChain in particular) into the healthcare system is part of the shift to value-based care. Maki argues that as the shift progresses, it’s becoming increasing clear that EMRs are no longer the sole repository of healthcare data. As a result, the push toward shared EMRs is at least partly misguided. After all, the EMR cannot capture the complete set of important events contributing to the patient’s overall “episode of care.” However, “smart contracts” can. These digital contracts, also known as “self-executing contracts” or “blockchain contracts” are a new breed of artificial intelligence (AI). Roughly speaking, smart contracts serve as ultra-efficient legal agents that can create, store and enforce contracts supporting the exchange of various forms of value (e.g. property, stock, money, etc.) on the blockchain in real-time. Accordingly, smart contracts, rather than the EMR, according to Maki, will emerge as the central medium for handling healthcare data in the future.The role of DokChainCEO Maki envisions DokChain connecting all endpoints (participants and stakeholders) in the healthcare ecosystem into a single secure blockchain network. These endpoints will not only include EMRs, but devices such as heart monitors. After pulling in data from all the endpoints participating in a given “episode of care,” DokChain records it, while handling permissions through “access grants” that DokChain “maintains and verifies.” The result is a distributed network of secure, richly organized healthcare data for stakeholders to track and share.The role of PokitDokAccording to Maki, although DokChain will serve as the blockchain network itself, PokitDok will provide the APIs connecting all of the following endpoints to the network and its “smart contract services”:Thirty party applications (more than 4,000). Insurance companies (more than 500). “[A]ll registered healthcare providers.”Use case: Insurance benefit checkOn stage at the Health 2.0 conference, Maki walked the audience through four steps in a typical use case—running a check to determine if one’s health insurance will cover a knee examination:Maki emphasizes that the benefits data itself is not stored on the DokChain, but rather in the secure PokitDok Platform. What is stored on DokChain are “access grants” to the benefits data, along with a complete record of the transaction that participants can access and share, subject to their permissions.PokitDok PartnersDokChain has announced an impressive list of initial partners:Microsoft GE Healthcare Adventist Healthcare The Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health SystemThis group, along with others, are joining forces in the DokChain Health Alliance (initially called “the Blockchain Alliance,” but later renamed) which Maki boldly claims will “ultimately define the future of blockchain in our industry.”FundingIn March, 2017, GIS Strategic Ventures (of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America) announced an investment of $5M in PokitDok. The company plans to use the funds not only to further develop DokChain, but to expand their existing API service.The investment round brings PokitDok’s total fundraising to date to $48M.Overall, DokChain is off to a strong start. It has set a clear strategic goal for itself of becoming the AI-run blockchain network for the era of value-based care; it has established a path to integration with the wealth of APIs that its parent company continues to expand; it has landed an impressive set of initial partners with the DokChain Health Alliance; and it has attracted ample funding, alongside parent PokitDok, with March’s $5M round. Although there are other ambitious contenders, such as Gem Health, vying to become “the blockchain of healthcare,” DokChain has come out of the gate with a lot of promise.Follow PokitDoc:Developer Blog: fullmetalhealth.comContact us for more on blockchain healthcare startups.
Patientory – Blockchain, A.I. and Population Health Management.Blockchain Solutions for Population Health ManagementPatientory is a healthcare start-up aiming to transform the way patients keep track of their health information by empowering them to manage their own health care. Although based in Atlanta, Patientory grew out of a collaboration between Boulder, Colorado’s Boomtown Health-Tech Accelerator and Colorado Permanente Medical Group (of Kaiser Permanente). They are also in partnership with Startup Health.Patientory has placed their focus on four inter areas: a mobile app, the Electronic Health Record, the health sector’s first crypto-token, and Patientory’s blockchain platform.The Patientory mobile appSimply called “Patientory,” the Patientory mobile app enables users to store, view and track their health care data using HIPPA-complaint blockchain technology. Patientory’s advanced patient profile gives users instant access to their:Medical history Doctor visits Medications Immunizations Health insuranceOn the Patientory blog, the team argues that the digitization of health care information not only has obvious advantages, such as instant access to one’s health data, but less immediately noticeable advantages as well. These include a reduction in lost data (e.g. from indecipherable handwriting); enhanced patient-doctor communication; emergency alerts (e.g. of life-threatening drug-interactions); and an increase in preventative care due to empowered and informed patients. More generally, Patientory claims that the digitization of health care data will increase healthcare quality and efficiency while reducing the nation’s healthcare costs by billions each year.Patientory and the EHRAccording to Patientory CEO Chrissa McFarlane, adoption of the Electronic Health Record has reached “approximately 90%” among health care providers. Nonetheless, McFarlane points out that recent security breaches have only worsened concerns over the privacy and security of EHRs. Furthermore, doctors and hospitals are often unable to share their information with one another. The result is not only an inefficient system, but a marked decrease in the quality of care. After all, every minute that doctors spend manually entering their patient’s data is another minute they could have spent with their patient. McFarlane maintains that blockchain is the most popular solution to the problem under discussion among technologists specializing in the healthcare sector. Patientory is building their platform accordingly.The Patientory crypto-tokenOn April 25th, Patientory announced that they were taking a bold step toward realizing the task of interconnecting patients’ EHRs (while preserving their privacy) with the introduction of the first crypto-token to the healthcare sector. According to McFarlane, the Patientory platform will transfer tokens—PTYs—to “reward providers that work together” and provide the best care to their patients. The result: both a reduction in the cost, and an increase in the quality, of healthcare. Patientory’s token sale is set to open on May 17th.The Patientory platformOn a more technical level, the Patientory platform (a health information exchange or HIE) makes use of secure, closed loop, distributed, blockchain technology to encrypt and decentralize data so that it distributed and HIPPA-compliant. As a result, with Patientory’s help, “the healthcare ecosystem” now has the means to embrace a blockchain platform and “to seamlessly exchange” information. According to Patientory, providers have every reason to participate, as the blockchain system promises to improve efficiency, eliminate redundancy and bring down the cost of care.Taking a broader view, Patientory sees a new model emerging for the U.S. healthcare system. McFarlane explains that the overall goal is to transition the healthcare system in the U.S. from a “pay-per-service” platform to a “value-based” platform. But to accomplish this task requires a trusted healthcare information system that enables participating organizations to track and reward “medical interventions” based on their “quality, value and effectiveness.”Overall, Patientory has a bold vision backed by a sophisticated app and blockchain platform. Yet the healthcare system has been slow to embrace systematic change in the past. Therefore, whether Patientory will succeed where others have failed in transforming the health sector is an open question. For fans of the “Facebook for healthcare,” a cautious optimism may be in order.Contact us for more information on healthcare start-ups utilizing transformative blockchain technology.
How Gem is building a blockchain healthcare network.How much do you know about your medical identity? You know you’re generally in good health. You know your height and your weight. You know if you have any chronic conditions. But can you remember how many tetanus shots you’ve had? Do you know which percentile your height placed you in for each year of life? Could you tell your doctor the exact amount of time you’ve been taking a prescription medication to the day?These are the details that make up your “medical identity.” A data scientist would call these details “longitudinal data.” Longitudinal data consists of hundreds of data points that are updated over the course of your life to paint the picture of your health. Each time you go to the doctor’s office, you add data to your longitudinal data set. Medical scribes and your primary care doctor carefully update your file and tuck it away amongst all your records.But there is a problem with this system. It is slow, cumbersome and practically unsharable. If you change doctors you have to go through length processes to ensure that your records arrive at your new doctor. If disaster strikes and you need your medical records right away, precious time is wasted hunting them down.The team at Gem, startup based in Venice California, is seeking to apply blockchain thinking to these data issues that are rampant in the healthcare sector. While Gem wishes to expand their process to include blockchain-based problem solving for all industries, they are beginning by tackling the issue of “patient identity” in the healthcare system.Gem seeks to connect all the disparate arms of the healthcare industry by creating a communal healthcare ecosystem. The key to their system is that they include a heavily patient-driven component. They have partnered with Phillips to begin their work on making patients active contributors and keepers of their medical identity.Their system works upon a series of nested systems that are all recorded and enforced using the blockchain ledger concept. On the patient level, mobile apps can record wellness data (think exercise apps like Strava, or your Apple Health App). Hospitals continue to collect and keep patient clinical records. Insurance companies continue to keep records of their claims. While these systems are now separated, Gem’s system seeks to create an ecosystem where these records can interact.This ecosystem is called the “Gem Health Network,” and is intended to create a standard for healthcare data that does not compromise security or privacy.The theft of healthcare  data has become a pressing issue for insurance companies and other medical enterprises. In December, the firm Quest Enterprises lost 34,000 files of patient data in a hacking attack, including their names, addresses, and phone numbers as well as further longitudinal data. Quest patient systems are relied on by many medical professionals even though their online platform is not encrypted.Gem’s blockchain application seeks to add security to patient information in two ways. Firstly, “permissioned blockchains” can control who has access to certain sensitive information. Additionally the identity of both parties in blocked, ensuring anonymity for sensitive healthcare data in the event that a hacker infiltrates the system. They can never come away with a way to link patent information to the patient themselves. Additionally, the shared ledger in which every event is timestamped cannot be tampered with. There are thousands of safeguards throughout the system (Gem’s Health Network) which are constantly updated in real time.Gem’s concept for a healthcare web has gained significant traction. They were rated the second most popular business development of the year by Bitcoin Magazine. They have raised 10.4 million in Series A funding so far and enjoy the support of companies like Capital One and KEC Ventures.
Blockchain & Smart Contracts Conference 2017 – Berlin.The Blockchain & Smart Contracts Conference will be held on February 20th-22nd in Berlin and industry leaders from many individual economic sectors will be descending on the city to discuss the technologies’ impact and future in Germany and beyond.Blockchain & Smart ContractsThe event sponsors list alone indicates both how diverse and how extensive interest in blockchain technologies is. Despite initial excitement and proliferation in America, adoption of blockchain technologies in the European private and public sectors is expanding at a far greater rate as sponsorships from both Deutsche Bank and the European Central Bank can attest.The first panel of the conference focuses on the regulatory issues of using blockchain and smart contract technology. Lead by Professor Dr. Nils Urbach of the University of Bayreuth and Fraunhofer FIT, who is an outspoken expert and advocate of blockchain regulatory issues. Klaus Löber, Senior Adviser to the European Central Bank will pick up with a perspective from the public sector, discussing the implications for and future of the regulation of blockchain technologies.Annika Schröder, the Director of Group Innovation at UBS, will discuss her company’s ever-increasing interest in blockchain technologies. UBS has already opened a Blockchain Innovation Lab in London. Furthermore, UBS has been pursuing applications of the infrastructure for nearly two years. This makes UBS one of the earliest major corporate adopters of the blockchain.Other panels will deal mainly with the implications of the blockchain and smart contracts in the finance sector. Additionally, they will explore more novel applications like use for voting and elections in Germany. This event promises to be one of the premier conferences concerning blockchain technology in Europe and beyond. The issues discussed about forming the regulatory backbone for blockchain technologies will undoubtedly have relevance for the healthcare industry.Please contact us for any questions you have.
Blockchain Opportunity Summit 2016 Recap – Smart Contracts.The Blockchain Opportunity Summit was held in Manhattan recently; industry leaders and blockchain visionaries were on hand to discuss the technology’s implications for diverse firms representing many sectors of the economy, from finance to real estate to healthcare. This was represented in the opening panel discussion, which featured Judd Bagley of Overstock.com, Ragnar Lifthrasir, Founder of the International Blockchain Real Estate Association, and Laura Shin of Forbes, one of the most prominent journalists covering blockchain technologies today. The conversation was lively and informative, bringing the industry leaders in attendance up to speed on the importance of recognizing blockchain technologies as relevant to all industries, not simply those in the financial sector.One of the most exciting technologies developed with the underlying blockchain infrastructure is that of smart contracts. The Blockchain Opportunity Summit devoted an entire panel to smart contracts. Ron Quaranta, EVP of Loyyal and Mark Smith, CEO of Symbiont provided their experiences with smart contracts and their utility for any industry, especially those with extensive regulatory oversight. Smart contracts have the potential to drastically reduce the regulatory and overall paperwork burden in healthcare. They provide an exceedingly private and secure environment for the verification of service fulfillment, as well as creating an indestructible record of actions for insurers and clients alike.One of the final panels of note dealt with the current legal environment pertaining to blockchain technologies. Though blockchain implementations like Bitcoin have faced strict legal scrutiny, panelists argued that the increased attention of federal agencies on blockchain technologies adds to the legitimacy and prevalence of the framework, and that it is up to industry leaders now to collaborate with these agencies to develop industry-friendly regulations going forward.
Pharma Blockchain Bootcamp: Conference Recap.Pharma Blockchain Bootcamp was an attempt to summarize ideas by various Pharmaceutical and data management companies over the uses of blockchain technology. Much of the technology is still new and not fully understood by the industry. The conference (sponsored by DisruptiveRx) started with an outline of what blockchain technology is and where it has been successful.Problem and SolutionOrganized around the idea of patient centered control, blockchain technology is seen (by some) as a way for individuals to control their own healthcare needs by having their medical data stored digitally. This solves the problem of paper records being mailed to and from hospitals and the possibility of loss and wait time. Companies like Factom Inc. created a biometric id verification for patient recognition that ensures privacy for the individual (another big problem with paper records).ComplianceThe technology could have applications for meeting the Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 according to Dr. Gilot (a speaker) of Blockchain Health. The idea is to track the drug from manufacture to purchase passing every regulatory hurdle and signature through the process. Having a software like blockchain that the industry agrees to share data through could make regulatory burdens much easier. Most of the proposals require the health care industry to sign on to the idea of digital records for patients.SummaryThe conference was the first of its kind for the Pharmaceutical Industry that focused exclusively on blockchain technology. Ideas for Pharma applications and web security companies are working on future trends for the health care industry. Understanding blockchain will be important when the new US Congress convenes in January and decides what to do about the Affordable Care Act.Review conference details: DisruptiveRx – PHARMA BLOCKCHAIN BOOTCAMP
What to expect at next year’s APAC Blockchain Conference.Next spring, technologists, business process experts, and forward-thinking industry leaders from around the world will convene at the University of Technology Sydney for the Asia-Pacific (APAC) Blockchain Conference 2017. Developed in partnership with the Australian Digital Currency Commerce Association (ADCCA), this two-day event aims to “look beyond the hype” of blockchain technology and to focus instead on real opportunities for cost-saving implementations across a broad array of industries. An impressively diverse panel of experts will weigh in, not only on the disruptive potential for blockchain technologies to improve business processes, but also on the various obstacles that remain to be overcome before widespread adoption and realistic implementation can begin.Although this conference is not specifically focused on the healthcare sector, there are a number of things on the agenda to be excited about for those interested in healthcare applications of blockchain technology. The first day of the conference is a plenary session in which panelists and keynote speakers will address such topics as:The latest real-world applications of smart contracts, highlighting those that move beyond mere regulatory compliance, product tracing, and service management. Design challenges currently hindering widespread blockchain adoption, including network integrity, distributed power, security, and rights preservation. The emerging need for skilled workers to make sure organizations remain competitive in the coming age of blockchain disruption.Ways blockchain technology may reshape local and global economic markets and the way private industry responds to the new contours of supply and demand in a world of distributed process automation. The regulatory framework necessary for organizations to embrace blockchain solutions and the responsibility of corporate entities to ensure adequate internal controls over open source technologies to reduce risk exposure in highly regulated industries.On day two, there will be two separate streaming sessions offered, and participants will have their choice of which to attend. Stream 1 focuses on banking and financial applications, while Stream 2–the one more likely to appeal to healthcare organizations–focuses on government, smart contracts, and industry applications. There are a number of topics in this latter stream that sound promising:Blockchain solutions for verifying and storing medical records and proving identities. Real-world security and anti-fraud applications, including some that may be relevant to regulatory compliance in healthcare services for protecting sensitive patient data. The potential for distributed data processing to reduce or eliminate human links in organizational structures–including, presumably, in healthcare organizations and those they do business with, such as insurance companies and government oversight agencies.Of course, we’ll be monitoring the conference proceedings with great interest, so be sure to stay in touch. Meanwhile, those interested in attending in person can find all the registration details here.
ONC Blockchain Challenge Winner: MIT’s Experimental Learning Proposal.As part of the President’s Precision Medicine Initiative (PMI), in August the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) began their “Blockchain Challenge.” The ONC challenge solicited proposals on how blockchain may be utilized to improve healthcare IT and to enable a “new era of clinical care through research, technology, and policies that empower patients, researchers, and providers to work together toward the development of individualized care.”Of the more than 70 proposals received, 15 were selected as finalists. Among those selected was Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy, and DataProject, a whitepaper by less succinctly named PharmOrchard of MIT’s Experimental Learning “MIT FinTech: Future Commerce.”MIT’s proposal explored threats PMI data’s security, confidentiality, integrity and availability and presented he OPAL/Enigma project3 as a strategy towards mitigating those challenges. The OPAL/Enigma project3 creates a peer-to-peer network based on highly optimized multi-party computation and secret-sharing via a permissioned blockchain that records and controls access through smart contracts and digital identities. OPAL thereby enabling complete privacy in analyzing jointly stored data, increasing interoperability. In sum, the OPAL/Enigma project3 uses blockchain technology to resolve the tension between the creation of a secure environment for stakeholder Electronic Health Information (EHI) and the necessity of efficiency in sharing that sensitive information. And, as a secure infrastructure that doesn’t sacrifice the ability of exchangeability of data, OPAL would be a potential tool providing:resolution of infrastructural matters, such as time and cost  to the analysis, storage and manipulation of health information; a better framework for precision medicine trials; the development of more comparative trials; a more cost-effective development of drugs; and the development of more effective treatments to patients.The proposal focuses on the OPAL system as a platform for the creation of accessible (yet confidential) databases of patient information at scale, and the ability to utilize information for expansive and nuanced adaptive clinical medical trials. However, it also notes that the system would, on an individual level, allow for a more holistic treatment of patients via a shared medical history.If you’d like to learn more, please contact us.
